As the search for "Glee" star Naya Rivera continues — she disappeared while boating with her son on Lake Piru near L.A. on Wednesday, and is presumed drowned — footage has been released showing the underwater search efforts for the missing mom.
Ventura County Sheriff's Office
As the search for "Glee" star Naya Rivera continues — she disappeared while boating with her son on Lake Piru near L.A. on Wednesday, and is presumed drowned — footage has been released showing the underwater search efforts for the missing mom.
The Ventura County Sheriff's Office released the footage on social media, providing an eerie look at the limited visibility at 30 feet in the lake, which has been described as being filled with underwater plants that present a hazard to swimmers.
1/2 Here's the ROV used by @TulareSheriff in the search for Naya Rivera at Lake Piru today. This is one of many resources being used, along with side scan sonar, dogs, and divers. pic.twitter.com/LkeI04HIMJ @VENTURASHERIFF
2/2 Here's an example of the underwater visibility at a 30-foot depth in Lake Piru. pic.twitter.com/YGNNUdmPQ4 @VENTURASHERIFF
A dark shape was located, but closer inspection revealed it to be a submerged tree branch.
Ventura County Sheriff's Office Captain Eric Buschow said of the search "Unfortunately, they did not locate Naya Rivera. They are still searching." He told reporters it was "difficult" going because "we don't know if she's going to be found five minutes from now or five days from now."
Late Saturday morning, the Sheriff's Office tweeted, "The search for Naya Rivera continues at Lake Piru. We are being assisted by @TulareSheriff and @SLOSheriff. We will keep you posted of any updates."
Naya's ex-husband Ryan Dorsey reunited with their 4-year-old son Josey on Thursday. Josey had been with his mother at the time of her disappearance, but was found safe on their boat, sleeping.
DailyMail.com reports Dorsey was spotted outside Naya's sister Nickayla Rivera's home in Valencia on Thursday. It appeared they ordered Uber Eats before Ryan left with Josey in his arms. The actor covered up in a hat and sunglasses while Josey clung to him, wearing shorts and a T-shirt.
The father and son left around 1 p.m. to head back to Ryan's home in the L.A. area.
Friends tell the paper that Dorsey had “no idea” she planned to take him to Lake Piru. His housemate, who asked to remain anonymous, added, “Ryan headed up there as soon as their son was found to look after him. He was gone by the time I got home Wednesday.”
Getty Images He added, “Naya has been in L.A. working, but I don't know where she has been living. None of us know any more than what is being reported at this time.”
The source continued, “Naya hadn't been in contact with him. She didn't tell him what she was doing. He had no idea… It's a horrible circumstance and we're hoping for the best.”