MYSTERY SOLVED Halle Berry, 54, confirms romance with new boyfriend, singer Van Hunt, as she tells fans ‘now ya know!’
HALLE Berry confirmed her new boyfriend is singer Van Hunt by posing in a t-shirt bearing his logo.
The actress shared the photo on Instagram, telling her followers: "now ya know."
9 Halle posted in a t-shirt with Van's logo Credit: Halle Berry /Instagram
Halle, 54, added a love heart and foot emoji to her caption - perhaps in reference to the photos she's shared of her and her mystery man's feet in bed.
Meanwhile, Van shared a selfie of himself cuddling up to the star two weeks ago.
The shot shows Halle planting a kiss on the singer's cheek.
He wrote: "kisses land softly."
9 The singer shared a selfie of the pair two weeks ago Credit: Van Hunt /Instagram
9 The actress previously posted a photo of her feet intertwined with a mystery man's in bed Credit: Instagram
Van, 50, is a multi-instrumentalist, songwriter and singer.
He took up drums at the age of seven, and saxophone at eight, and then learned to play the bass and keyboards.
Van has been playing the guitar and writing songs since he was a teenager, according to Hollywood Life.
He won a Grammy for R&B Performance by a Duo or Group with Vocals for Family Affair and was as nominated for a Grammy for Urban/Alternative Performance for his song Dust.
9 Halle first sparked speculation about her love life back in July Credit: Splash News
9 Van, 50, is a multi-instrumentalist, songwriter and singer Credit: Van Hunt / Instagram
Halle first sparked speculation about her love life back in July when she posted a picture of her feet beside a man's, positioned side by side.
She then posted another photo a month later, with her feet intertwined with a man's on a bed.
9 The actress was married to David Justice from 1993 to 1997 Credit: Getty Images - Getty
She wrote: "Waking up Vegas! Thank you for all the beautiful birthday wishes from my friends and my very supportive and loyal fans! You ALL helped to make my birthday extra special."
The mom of two has been married three times - to David Justice from 1993 to 1997, Eric Benét from 2001 to 2005 and Olivier Martinez from 2013 to 2016, with whom she shares son Maceo Robert, 6.
She also shares a daughter, Nahla Ariela Aubry, 12, with her ex-boyfriend, Canadian model Gabriel Aubry.
9 She was then married to Eric Benét from 2001 to 2005 Credit: Getty Images
9 The star shares a child with third husband Olivier Martinez Credit: Getty Images
9 She also shares a daughter with Canadian model Gabriel Aubry Credit: Getty Images - Getty
Halle's next due on the big screen in Bruised, which she also directed.
She plays disgraced MMA fighter Jackie Justice, who has to face one of the rising stars of the MMA world and deal with the return of her six-year-old son to the mother he deserves.
It's due to have its premiere at the Toronto Film Festival this month - the festival has been reimagined to manage the coronavirus pandemic.