JEFF BEZOS’ ex-wife, MacKenzie Scott, was remarried on March 7, 2021, to Seattle school teacher Dan Jewett.Scott inherited $36.8 billion from her sp
JEFF BEZOS’ ex-wife, MacKenzie Scott, was remarried on March 7, 2021, to Seattle school teacher Dan Jewett.
Scott inherited $36.8 billion from her split with the former Amazon CEO in 2019 and has since closed the door on her second marriage.
2 MacKenzie Scott remarried science teacher Dan Jewett in 2021
Who is MacKenzie Scott’s ex-husband Dan Jewett?
MacKenzie Scott remarried Seattle science teacher Dan Jewett back in March 2021.
Jewett teaches chemistry at the private Lakeside School in Washington state, reportedly the school that Scott’s children attend.
He announced his marriage to Scott on the Giving Pledge website, which is a movement created by Bill and Melinda Gates and Warren Buffett to encourage billionaire philanthropy.
Jewett wrote on the website: “In a stroke of happy coincidence, I am married to one of the most generous and kind people I know—and joining her in a commitment to pass on an enormous financial wealth to serve others.”
Adding: “I have been a teacher for the majority of my life, as well as a grateful student of the generosity of those around me.
“This has meant doing my best to follow their example by passing on resources of all kinds—from time, to energy, to material possessions—when I have had them to give.”
When did MacKenzie Scott file for divorce?
On September 23, 2022, Scott filed a petition for divorce from Jewett a little over a year after getting married.
Family law attorney David Glass told People that the pair's separation agreements mean "there won't be any trials."
The split was later finalized in January 2023, according to court documents obtained by TMZ.
At this time, the reason for their divorce has not been revealed.
What is MacKenzie Scott’s net worth?
According to Forbes, Scott has a net worth of around $36.3 billion.
As part of her 2019 divorce, she received a four percent stake in Amazon.
She has given away money to several causes, including climate change, racial inequality, and public health.
So far, she has donated over $16.5 billion of her wealth to almost 1,600 nonprofits since her split from Bezos, as per Forbes.
2 Scott inherited $36.8 billion from her split with Jeff Bezos Credit: Getty Images - Getty
For instance, in October 2022, the billionaire philanthropist donated $84.5 million to the Girl Scouts.
According to Forbes, the donation is "the largest gift the Girl Scouts of the USA has ever received from a single donor."
Scott has previously said she recruited a team of non-profit advisors to help her find and assess organizations that had a "major impact" on various causes.
A year prior, she revealed in a blog post that she donated $4.2 billion to food banks and Covid relief funds over four months.
In March 2024, Scott announced on her Yield Giving database that she was donating $640 million to 361 nonprofits.
NBC affiliate KGW reports that 361 nonprofits were chosen out of the over 6000 that applied for the grant.