At DC FanDome, writer-director James Gunn revealed the full cast of characters who will appear in the upcoming Suicide Squad film.
After months of anticipation, The Suicide Squad's cast list has finally been revealed.
Viola Davis and Joel Kinnamen will reprise their roles as Amanda Waller and Capt. Rick Flagg, respectively. Margot Robbie will, of course, return as Harley Quinn, with Jai Courtney coming back as Captain Boomerang.
RELATED: DC FanDome: The Suicide Squad Cast Gears Up For A Task Force X Showdown
Newcomers include Idris Elba, who plays Bloodsport; John Cena as Peacemaker; Michael Rooker as Savant; Peter Capaldi as Thinker; Pete Davidson as Blackguard; David Dastmalchian as Polka-Dot Man; Nathan Fillion as T.D.K.; Flula Borg as Javelin; Daniela Melchior as Ratcatcher 2; Steve Agee as King Shark; Mayling Ng as Mongal; Alice Braga as Solsoria; Joaquín Cosío as Major General Suarez; Juan Diego Botto as General Luna; and Sean Gunn as Weasel.
The cast will also feature Storm Reid as Tyla, Bloodsport's daughter, and Jennifer Holland as Emilia Harcourt. Notably, actors Taika Waititi, Tinashe Kajese and Julio Ruiz were left off the roll call video, so it is unclear which characters they will be playing at this time.
RELATED: The Suicide Squad Debuts First Look At DC FanDome
Writer-director James Gunn originally revealed the cast list back in Sept. 2019 with an image on Instagram. However, he did not reveal who the actors would be playing at that time. Notably, he warned fans, "Don’t get too attached," so not all of these characters will last very long. As such, don't be surprised to see some actors make short cameo appearances, as their characters fall victim to the team's titular creed.
This latest casting information was revealed at DC FanDome, an event that has thus far also revealed a new trailer for Wonder Woman 1984 and concept art for The Flash's new costume. The event also included a behind-the-scenes look at The Suicide Squadwith a featurette that showed the team in action for the very first time.
Written and directed by James Gunn, The Suicide Squad stars Margot Robbie, Viola Davis, Joel Kinnaman, Jai Courtney, David Dastmalchian, John Cena, Joaquin Cosio, Nathan Fillion, Mayling Ng, Flula Borg, Sean Gunn, Juan Diego Botto, Storm Reid, Pete Davidson, Taika Waititi, Alice Braga, Steve Agee, Tinashe Kajese, Daniela Melchior, Peter Capaldi, Julio Ruiz, Jennifer Holland, Idris Elba and Michael Rooker. The film arrives in theaters Aug. 6, 2021.
KEEP READING: Suicide Squad: James Gunn Debuts Multiple International Logos For The DC Superteam 'Reboot'