Thor star Chris Hemsworth hangs up his hammer and picks up his gun in the new trailer for Netflix's intense action-thriller Extraction.
Chris Hemsworth is a mercenary on a mission in the official trailer for Netflix’s newest action-thriller Extraction. After a solid 9-year run as Marvel superhero Thor in the MCU, Hemsworth finds himself with time on his hands after the epic events of Avengers: Endgame brought an end to the so-called Infinity Saga. Of course, Thor is expected to be back for a fourth solo film in Thor: Love and Thunder, but that movie is still several years away (and indeed the entire MCU schedule has now been thrown for a loop thanks to coronavirus delays).
The comic book action heroics of Thor certainly helped propel Hemsworth to a new level of fame as an actor, and now Netflix is hoping the Avengers star’s name will help sell their latest action movie, an intense looking thriller starring Hemsworth as a mercenary taking on his toughest mission. See the new trailer for Hemsworth’s film Extraction in the space below:
Related: Netflix Releases Won’t Be Affected Until Later This Year By Coronavirus Shutdowns
Netflix may be relatively new to the big-budget action movie game, but they already proved themselves to be major players with 2019’s Triple Frontier, which attracted big name stars Oscar Isaac, Ben Affleck and Charlie Hunnam, and also with last year’s Michael Bay directed 6 Underground starring Ryan Reynolds. Hemsworth now gets his turn in a movie that certainly looks much more gritty and intense than the superhero films he’s become associated with.
The synopsis for Extraction reads as follow: “Tyler Rake (Hemsworth) is a fearless black market mercenary who embarks on the deadliest mission of his career when he’s enlisted to rescue the kidnapped son of an international crime lord. Directed by Sam Hargrave, this action-packed, edge-of-your-seat thriller is produced by Joe and Anthony Russo, the visionary directors of Avengers: Endgame.” The film becomes available to stream beginning on April 24, 2020.
More: 10 Thor Mannerisms From The Comics Chris Hemsworth Nails
Source: Netflix