THE BIG REVEAL What is Gigi Hadid and Zayn Malik’s baby called?
GIGI Hadid and boyfriend Zayn Malik are settling into life as new parents.
Now the celebrity couple have FINALLY revealed their baby daughter's name.
3 Gigi Hadid has finally revealed her and Zayn Malik's daughter's name Credit: instagram.com/gigihadid
What is Gigi Hadid and Zayn Malik's baby called?
On January 22, 2021, Gigi Hadid revealed the name of her and Zayn Malik's baby daughter is Khai.
The supermodel quietly changed her Instagram bio to include "khai's mom".
This the first time fans have found out the name.
Before now, the couple have not given a hint of their little girl's name.
3 Gigi changed her Instagram bio to include the name
When did Gigi Hadid give birth?
Gigi announced Khai's birth on September 24, 2020, writing on Instagram: "Our girl joined us earth-side this weekend and she’s already changed our world. So in love."
She also shared a sweet photo of herself holding the newborn's hand.
Zayn posted a similar photo of his tattooed hand and wrote in the post: "Our baby girl is here, healthy & beautiful.
"To try put into words how I am feeling right now would be an impossible task. The love I feel for this tiny human is beyond my understanding.
"Grateful to know her, proud to call her mine, & thankful for the life we will have together x."
The whole family was delighted with the arrival.
Gigi's dad Mohamed, 71, penned a handwritten note that read: "Hello little grandchild, it is me, my heart as happy as can be. I wish for you the sun and the moon, I wish for you a happy time.
"Know that Grandpa's always near, I'd do anything, anything for you, my dear.
"When I heard you were on the way, I smiled and wiped a tear away. I cried the tear because I knew my heart would always belong to you."
3 Khai with her grandma Yolanda Credit: Instagram
What does Khai mean?
TMZ reports that the name is a tribute to her paternal grandmother Khairiah.
The superstar couple have been cautious over the amount of baby material they post online, never showing their little one's face.
However, what they have shared shows just how much their daughter means to them.
In a birthday post for boyfriend Zayn, Gigi wrote: "Team No Sleep ! Happiest birthday to our Zaddy baba. So special.
"Love you long time, thank you for makin me a mamma to the best girl ever. Wish you the best every single day."