After rolling off aircraft on Sunday, vaccines were heading to health care facilities Monday with vulnerable frontline workers first in line.
Even as grim statistics revealed no sign that the unrelenting coronavirus surge was loosening its grip on Southern California, hope arrived at hospitals and other deployment sites Monday, Dec. 14, in the form of the first doses of Pfizer’s long-awaited COVID-19 vaccine.
Nurse Helen Cordova shares a light moment with colleagues while waiting to receive the the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine at Kaiser Permanente Los Angeles Medical Center in Los Angeles, Monday, Dec. 14, 2020. (AP Photo/Jae C. Hong)
Nurse Helen Cordova, right, receives the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine at Kaiser Permanente Los Angeles Medical Center in Los Angeles, Monday, Dec. 14, 2020. (AP Photo/Jae C. Hong)
This Monday, Nov. 23, 2020 photo from video provided by Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles shows the room where they will store coronavirus vaccines in super-cold storage. As California recorded a record of nearly 35,500 positive coronavirus cases on Friday, Dec. 11, 2020,, there is a glimmer of hope. California is awaiting the first batch of coronavirus vaccine and planning to distribute it to hospitals to inoculate healthcare workers on the front lines of the pandemic. The state is expecting to receive 327,000 doses of Pfizer’s vaccine by early next week. (Cedars-Sinai)
This Monday, Nov. 23, 2020 photo from video provided by Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles shows the room where they will store coronavirus vaccines in super-cold storage. As California recorded a record of nearly 35,500 positive coronavirus cases on Friday, Dec. 11, 2020,, there is a glimmer of hope. California is awaiting the first batch of coronavirus vaccine and planning to distribute it to hospitals to inoculate healthcare workers on the front lines of the pandemic. The state is expecting to receive 327,000 doses of Pfizer’s vaccine by early next week. (Cedars-Sinai via AP)
This Monday, Nov. 23, 2020 photo from video provided by Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles shows the room where they will store coronavirus vaccines in super-cold storage. As California recorded a record of nearly 35,500 positive coronavirus cases on Friday, Dec. 11, 2020,, there is a glimmer of hope. California is awaiting the first batch of coronavirus vaccine and planning to distribute it to hospitals to inoculate healthcare workers on the front lines of the pandemic. The state is expecting to receive 327,000 doses of Pfizer’s vaccine by early next week. (Cedars-Sinai)
Medical staff, Helen Cordova, from left, Kim Taylor, Brian Thompson, Raul Aguilar, and Angela Balam pose for photos after receiving the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine at Kaiser Permanente Los Angeles Medical Center in Los Angeles, Monday, Dec. 14, 2020. (AP Photo/Jae C. Hong)
The medical staff listens to California Gov. Gavin Newsom during a news conference at Kaiser Permanente Los Angeles Medical Center in Los Angeles, Monday, Dec. 14, 2020, after five healthcare workers received the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine. (AP Photo/Jae C. Hong)
David Cheng, director of inpatient pharmacy, holds the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine at Kaiser Permanente Los Angeles Medical Center in Los Angeles, Monday, Dec. 14, 2020. (AP Photo/Jae C. Hong)
California Gov. Gavin Newsom looks on, far right, as ICU nurse Helen Cordova receives the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine at Kaiser Permanente Los Angeles Medical Center in Los Angeles, Monday, Dec. 14, 2020. (AP Photo/Jae C. Hong, Pool)
Director of inpatient pharmacy David Cheng, center, places trays of the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine into a freezer at Kaiser Permanente Los Angeles Medical Center in Los Angeles, Monday, Dec. 14, 2020. (AP Photo/Jae C. Hong)
Respiratory care practitioner Raul Aguilar receives the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine at Kaiser Permanente Los Angeles Medical Center in Los Angeles, Monday, Dec. 14, 2020. (AP Photo/Jae C. Hong)
David Cheng, director of inpatient pharmacy, holds the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine at Kaiser Permanente Los Angeles Medical Center in Los Angeles, Monday, Dec. 14, 2020. (AP Photo/Jae C. Hong)
David Cheng, director of inpatient pharmacy, places trays of the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine into a freezer at Kaiser Permanente Los Angeles Medical Center in Los Angeles, Monday, Dec. 14, 2020. (AP Photo/Jae C. Hong)
Dr. Brian Thompson waits to receive the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine at Kaiser Permanente Los Angeles Medical Center in Los Angeles, Monday, Dec. 14, 2020. (AP Photo/Jae C. Hong)
California Gov. Gavin Newsom watches as the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine is prepared by Director of Inpatient Pharmacy David Cheng at Kaiser Permanente Los Angeles Medical Center in Los Angeles, Monday, Dec. 14, 2020. (AP Photo/Jae C. Hong)
California Gov. Gavin Newsom holds up a vial of the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine at Kaiser Permanente Los Angeles Medical Center in Los Angeles, Monday, Dec. 14, 2020. (AP Photo/Jae C. Hong)
Vaccines were hustled into ultracold storage at facilities in Los Angeles, Orange, San Bernardino and Riverside counties, as well as the rest of the nation, and rekindled the resolve of flurries of health care workers who rolled up their sleeves for history-making injections.
“We front-line workers have been working around the clock sacrificing so much of what we do and love,” said Kim Taylor, an emergency room nurse at Kaiser Permanente Los Angeles.
Taylor was among the first Southern Californians to be inoculated against the often deadly virus as Gov. Gavin Newsom looked on and applauded.
“It’s a day when we can lay claim to the fresh air of progress rather than that stale air of normalcy,” Newsom said. “But we have to be sober and mindful about the moment we are in.”
The governor reflected Monday’s mixed emotional tone. California had received more than 33,000 vaccine doses by day’s end, but nearly as many people were confirmed positive in a midday update. Nearly 1.6 million Californians have tested positive for the virus, which has killed 21,000 people in just short of 10 months.
Just this past week, the state averaged 60 deaths per day.
Nonetheless, the shipments of vaccines streaming off aircraft at LAX provided bright moments after months of dark news, the first step in the largest medical enterprise of its kind, aiming to inoculate millions of people across Southland counties and the rest of the nation within six months.
Locally, administrators were prioritizing the most vulnerable health care workers to receive the vaccine first in a process dictated by state public health officials. Airport officials on Sunday trumpeted the arrival on Twitter, posting photos of the FedEx jetliner carrying the vaccine, which received formal approval from federal authorities over the weekend.
The first batch of COVID-19 vaccine has arrived in Los Angeles at LAX. This is a major milestone for science, our country and our community. Thank you to all those who made this delivery possible, and are part of the incredible effort to distribute vaccines around the world. pic.twitter.com/KUnjSFrTyS — LAX Airport (@flyLAXairport) December 14, 2020
Sylvain Trepanier, regional chief clinical executive for Providence Southern California, called the arrival of the vaccine “history in the making.”
Los Angeles was one of four sites receiving vaccines in California, along with San Diego, San Francisco and Eureka. The state is expected to administer 2.1 million to 2.6 million doses by the end of the year, Newsom said. The state has roughly 2.4 million health care workers.
According to Newsom’s office, a Western States Scientific Safety Review Workgroup — a panel of experts created by governors of California, Nevada, Oregon and Washington to independently verify the safety of any vaccine — concluded its review of the Pfizer vaccine Sunday and confirmed it is “safe and efficacious.”
Pfizer and U.S. officials said the vaccine has been found to be 95% effective in preventing COVID-19. Notably, however, the vaccine might not prevent someone from getting infected and transmitting the coronavirus, something researchers have yet to determine.
The vaccine was co-developed by Pfizer and its German partner BioNTech. Containers used to transport it were specially designed to hold temperatures at the desired minus 94 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 70 Celsius) for up to 10 days. The same containers can be refilled with dry ice to hold the vaccine for up to 30 days, or facilities can keep the vials for up to five days at 35 to 46 degrees Fahrenheit.
Each package utilizes GPS-enabled thermal sensors that track its location as well as its temperature. The Pfizer vaccine in particular must be stored at ultracold temperatures, which puts additional pressure on the distribution process. Other vaccines, including one by Moderna due to receive authorization soon, will not require ultracold storage.
Around the region
Los Angeles County’s initial allotment of vaccine is expected to be nearly 83,000 doses, a population-based percentage of the roughly 327,000 doses being received by the state. The county’s vaccines will be dispersed to nine ultracold storage facilities, the locations of which were not being released because of security concerns, although some hospitals have publicly stated they would be handling them.
The first to receive vaccine doses in L.A. County was Kaiser on Monday, while the remaining eight were scheduled to be supplied Tuesday and Wednesday. Those facilities will distribute the doses to 83 acute care hospitals, which will oversee their administration to selected critical front-line workers.
In Orange County, hospitals were piecing together plans to start lining up their front-line workers for the first wave of some 25,000 doses being shipped to 33 hospitals in the county by Wednesday. A second, larger batch of the Pfizer vaccine was expected around Dec. 22 with the Moderna vaccine anticipated in the meantime.
Officials at UC Irvine Medical Center in Orange said injections were expected to begin shortly after the shots are delivered, as soon as Tuesday.
At Hoag Hospital in Newport Beach, which cared for the state’s first known COVID-19 patient at the dawn of the pandemic, vaccinations were set to kick off early Wednesday before staffers start their shifts.
San Bernardino County expected its first doses Tuesday or Wednesday, spokesman David Wert said Monday.
The Department of Public Health will receive the doses directly and distribute them, starting with workers who have direct contact with COVID-19 patients, said Andrew Goldfrach, the chief operating officer at Arrowhead Regional Medical Center and head of the county’s COVID-19 vaccine task force. The initial shipment will serve 15,600 workers, who will receive a second dose in 21 days.
Riverside County expects to receive between 14,000 and 15,000 doses, which could arrive Friday, officials said in a news release.
“With so much grim news lately with the pandemic, it is great that we can give the public something so positive that we believe can turn this around,” Kim Saruwatari, director of public health, said in the news release. “This is a turning point in the pandemic, and we are looking forward to a time in the not-to-distant future when we can vaccinate tens of thousands of our neighbors against this virus.”
Front-line workers first
Officials at sites scattered around the Southland communicated consensus on the mission to inoculate front-line medical teams first.
“When these groups get vaccinated, it not only protects them, keeping them available to support the medical needs of our city,” said Long Beach Health Officer Dr. Anissa Davis. “It also protects everyone who needs to receive care from them.”
Around 3,900 doses of the Pfizer vaccine were expected to ship to Long Beach hospitals as early as Monday, rolling out before the end of the month, followed by 11,600 doses of the Moderna vaccine sometime in early January, according to the city’s independent health department Thursday.
Vaccines distributed in Long Beach and Pasadena were not included in the L.A. County totals because those cities operate their own health departments.
“We’re in the process of putting this together and figuring out the mechanics of distribution,” said Dr. Kimberly Shriner, an infectious disease specialist with Huntington Hospital in Pasadena, often used by public health officials as a barometer for the San Gabriel Valley’s health resources, which expected shipments on Thursday.
Beverly Hospital in Montebello and PIH Health of Whittier were both anticipating the vaccine to administer to the first staff members sometime this week.UCLA Health officials said they expected to get the vaccines Monday or Tuesday, with shots administered on Wednesday.
Torrance Memorial Medical Center expects delivery of vaccines Wednesday. Out of its nine Providence Southern California hospitals that care for COVID-19 patients, admissions have more than doubled since July from 420 to 1,000 currently, according to spokeswoman Patricia Aidem. “We know we have all the confidence we will be able to offer vaccination to all of our high-risk caregivers by end of this year, which is a really important step to counteracting this dreadful disease,” added Providence’s Trepanier.
Stan Lyles, vice president of SEIU-United Healthcare Workers, said the union was excited that the vaccine was arriving but stressed the importance of allocating it equitably.
“It’s exciting that the vaccine is coming to our hospitals and that health care workers can look forward to a day soon when they will be protected from this deadly virus,” Lyles said. “Too many of our co-workers have fallen sick or passed away.”
As of Dec. 4, 113 health care workers in L.A. County have died, and close to 3,500 have become infected in the past two weeks.
The first doses of the vaccine will not cover every front-line worker, so health care facilities must decide who receives the initial allocations, mostly based on vulnerability and age.
After the distribution of vaccines to health care workers, skilled nursing facilities and long-term care staff and residents is completed, priority will then move to “essential workers” and then to people at highest risk of severe illness from the virus, such as seniors or those with underlying health conditions.
L.A. County’s chief science officer insisted last week that the process would be executed equitably, based on health priorities, not on power or prominence.
“Equity is a fundamental principle here,” Dr. Paul Simon said. “We want to make sure all people have access and that those that are at greatest risk either because of higher risk of exposure or greater risk of severe illness because of chronic health conditions or other factors have more immediate access to the vaccine.”
Images of grinning health care workers being inoculated with cohorts cheering nearby dominated the airwaves on Monday, along with trucks unloading Pfizer’s precious cargo to eager hospital teams who rushed them into their high-tech cooling units.
Nonetheless, officials around the region circled back to a unified message: With vaccines for most residents hovering months away, the battle against the outbreak was far from over.
L.A. Mayor Eric Garcetti urged residents not to let their guard down and to adhere to such state-decreed stay-at-home measures as social distancing and the wearing of masks.
“We are marching through the horror of this moment,” Garcetti said. “There is no way around that. We now have 10 times the cases we had six weeks ago in L.A. County. But we are also marching through the hope of this moment. We hold those two together. As we celebrate today, do not let up. Do not stop doing what’s right.”
City News Service and staff writers Ian Wheeler, Teri Sforza, Ryan Hagen. Michael Sprague and Hayley Munguia contributed to this report.