THE world was shocked when seemingly happy couple Jay Cutler and Kristin Cavallari filed for divorce.Now fans want to know if he has found love again
LOOKING FOR LAH-VE Are Jay Cutler and Tomi Lahren dating?
THE world was shocked when seemingly happy couple Jay Cutler and Kristin Cavallari filed for divorce.
Now fans want to know if he has found love again with Tomi Lahren.
4 Tomi Lahren and Jay Cutler are rumoured to be dating
Are Jay Cutler and Tomi Lahren dating?
The rumour mill went into overdrive in late August 2020 when Kristin Cavallari's ex Jay Cutler was spotted out with conservative Fox political pundit Tomi Lahren in Nashville.
According to E!, the pair were spotted enjoying a night out together at Winners Bar in the city.
The source told the broadcaster: "The two of them were having a lot of fun together at a table along with two other friends.
"Tomi and Jay were passing a bottle of tequila back and forth and taking shots together directly from the bottle. The two of them left together."
4 Tomi Lahren is a poltical pundit
What have people said on Twitter about the Jay Cutler and Tomi Lahren dating rumours?
Twitter went into meltdown over the pair's relationship rumours.
There were thousands of tweets poking fun at their potential romance, as many see them as an unlikely match.
The received quite a lot of backlash and were trolled over reports they are dating.
4 Jay and his former wife Kristin Cavallari split in 2020 Credit: Splash News
Who else has Jay Cutler dated?
The former American football quarterback had a reputation as a bit of a party boy before he met and fell in love with Kristin.
Right before their relationship started, he was linked to Julia Allison.
Like Kristin, Julia is also a reality star known for Bravo's Miss Advanced.
4 Jay with his ex wife Kristin in happier times Credit: Instagram
Who else has Tomi Lahren dated?
Like Jay, Tomi has also just come out of a serious relationship.
In February 2020, she called time on her 2-and-a-half year relationship with fiancé Brandon Fricke.
The former couple announced their engagement in June 2019.
Why did Jay Cutler and Kristin Cavallari divorce?
The former couple got engaged in 2011 after dating for just eight months.
They had their first child in 2012 before heading to the altar in 2013.
They had another child in 2014 and then added one more to their brood in 2015.
Unfortunately it wasn't meant to be and they filed for divorce in April 2020.