The CBI is investigating the Sushant Singh Rajput death case. Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik Chakraborty along with the others will be questioned for a few more days.
The CBI is investigating Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case and prime suspects are being questioned. On Friday (August 28), Rhea Chakraborty was summoned by the CBI and was asked about what happened on June 8, why did she block Sushant, and more. She was questioned for 10 hours. Rhea’s brother, Showik Chakraborty, was also interrogated by the CBI. On Satuday (August 29), Rhea and Showik were again called in for questioning. Rhea is being quizzed by the CBI today as well.
advertisement
The intensive interrogation of Rhea, Showik, Sushant Singh Rajput’s staff including Neeraj, Keshav and Dipesh will continue for a few more days. Rajat Mewati, the late actor’s accountant, and friend and creative content manager Siddharth Pithani’s questioning will also continue along with others.
SUSHANT SINGH RAJPUT DEATH CASE: ALL YOU NEED TO KNOW
The same set of questions are being asked to find out if there are any inconsistencies in the statements and whether they are sticking to what they said or not.
It is unlikely that Rhea Chakraborty’s parents are examined in the first round. Considering their age, the CBI team might go to their residence.
CBI has also decided to question Sushant Singh Rajput’s sisters Priyanka Singh and Meetu. Priyanka's husband, Siddharth, will also be questioned. If required, they will be confronted with Rhea Chakraborty, who had earlier alleged that Priyanka had molested her.
Meetu Singh was with Sushant Singh Rajput from June 8 to June 12. She will be asked about what happened during that time. Siddharth Pithani, Dipesh and Neeraj will also be confronted with Meetu.
Sushant Singh Rajput was found dead at his Bandra home on June 14. Four people were present at his residence at the time of his death: Siddharth Pithani, Neeraj, Keshav and Dipesh Sawant.
ALSO READ | Rhea Chakraborty India Today Exclusive: Got to know about Sushant's mental illness during Europe trip
ALSO READ | Rhea Chakraborty Exclusive Interview to Rajdeep Sardesai: Sushant, slander and cry for justice
ALSO WATCH | Rhea Chakraborty Exclusive: I don't know Sandip Ssingh