China, which has been blocking India’s efforts to become a permanent member of the UN Security Council, on Wednesday reiterated its stand on New Delhi’s bid for a seat, and called for evolving a...
China, which has been blocking India’s efforts to become a permanent member of the UN Security Council, on Wednesday (February 10) reiterated its stand on New Delhi’s bid for a seat, and called for evolving a “package solution” that is acceptable to all.
Foreign ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin’s comments came a day after India and China discussed a wide range of issues relating to the UN body.
Also read: India, China withdrawing troops from Pangong Tso lake: Chinese military
China is a permanent member of the UNSC, while India began its two-year tenure as a non-permanent member on January 1. In August, India is scheduled to serve as the president of the UNSC.
Asked about the outcome of the meeting and whether there was any discussion on India’s candidature for permanent membership, Wang said in Beijing that during Tuesday’s virtual meeting, the two sides held consultations on Security Council issues.
Both sides exchanged views on upholding multilateralism, peacekeeping operations and counter-terrorism, he said.
“As for India’s bid for permanent membership to the UNSC, I can reiterate China’s principled position on this issue. China supports UNSC reforms in a manner that increases the authority and efficacy of the UNSC, increases the representation and voice of developing countries so that small and medium-sized countries have a greater opportunity to participate in the decision making of the UNSC,” he said.
“It should be done through the widest possible democratic consultation and seek a package solution that takes into account the interests and concerns of all parties,” he said.
China has been stonewalling India’s efforts to become a member of UN’s powerful body for years, pointing to lack of consensus, even though the other four, US, UK, France and Russia, have expressed backing for New Delhi’s membership. China’s ally Pakistan is also opposed to India becoming a permanent member of the UNSC.
Also read: India losing control over its sphere of influence in South Asia
India and China on Tuesday held discussions on a wide range of issues relating to the United Nations Security Council, the Ministry of External Affairs said in New Delhi.
It said both sides agreed to continue their engagement on key issues on the UNSC agenda.