With their first new album in 14 years due out within weeks, the musical trio have taken a stance to align themselves with the Black Lives Matter movement.
Grammy Award-winning US country music band The Dixie Chicks will now be known as The Chicks.
Key points: The Chicks are Martie Maguire, Natalie Maines and Emily Strayer
The Chicks are Martie Maguire, Natalie Maines and Emily Strayer Their New Zealand namesake was formed by Suzanne and Judy Donaldson and was popular in the 1960s and 1970s
Their New Zealand namesake was formed by Suzanne and Judy Donaldson and was popular in the 1960s and 1970s US country group Lady Antebellum also changed their name, to Lady A
The band's social media accounts and website were changed earlier this month in response to the anti-racism protests sweeping the world.
Dixie is a slang word for America's southern states, especially those that belonged to the pro-slavery Confederacy.
The Chicks, who are releasing their first new album in 14 years next month, also released a video for their new song, March March, that features videos and images from the recent Black Lives Matter rallies.
"We want to meet this moment," a statement on The Chicks' website read.
Made up of Martie Maguire, Natalie Maines and Emily Strayer, The Chicks acknowledged another group with the same name from New Zealand.
The Kiwi version of The Chicks, Suzanne and Judy Donaldson, had a string of hits in the 1960s and 1970s.
The American group thanked them "for their gracious gesture in allowing us to share their name".
Loading YouTube content
"A sincere and heartfelt thank you goes out to 'The Chicks' of NZ," the band said in a statement.
"We are honoured to co-exist together in the world with these exceptionally talented sisters."
The Chicks are the best-selling female group in America, with more than 33 million albums sold in the United States.
Formed in Texas as a bluegrass group, the band hit commercial fame with their breakthrough album Wide Open Spaces. The band has won 13 Grammys.
The group attracted heavy criticism in 2003 when lead singer Maines questioned then-president George W Bush's decisions over the Iraq War.
They responded to the backlash with their 2006 song Not Ready to Make Nice and swept the Grammys in 2007, winning three of the top all-genre categories.
The move followed a decision by country group Lady Antebellum to change to Lady A after acknowledging the word's association to slavery.
Loading YouTube content
Antebellum refers to something occurring or existing before a particular war, especially the US Civil War.
Lady A received criticism after their name switch after a black singer revealed she'd been performing as Lady A for years.
AP