NEARLY 30 years ago a young Meghan Markle sought refuge in her LA home while rioters tore the city apart.
Meghan Markle: ‘George Floyd’s life mattered’
The Duchess of Sussex has recalled ash falling from the sky, the smell of smoke and the sight of a charred tree by her front door. Yesterday, in the modest but well-kept street where she spent her teenage years, the trees were flourishing again. And residents praised the Duchess for speaking out against police brutality and the death of George Floyd, saying she could help "raise morale in troubling times".
Meghan moved into her now-estranged father Thomas’s two-bedroom ground floor apartment when she was 11 in 1992. It was the year LA's worst rioting erupted following the acquittal of four white policemen for beating of the Afro-American builder Rodney King in 1991. He was battered to the floor and attacked by a mob of officers with batons. The brutality was caught on film by an onlooker. In a six-minute video for a virtual graduation ceremony at her old high school, Meghan recalled the anger that spilled on to the city's streets. The former Suits actress, 38, said: "I was 11 or 12 years old. I was just about to start Immaculate Heart Middle School in the fall, and it was the LA riots, which were also triggered by a senseless act of racism. "And I remember the curfew and rushing back home and, on that drive home, seeing ash fall from the sky and smelling the smoke and seeing the smoke billow out of buildings and seeing people run out of buildings carrying bags and looting.
Meghan Markle, Duchess of Sussex
"And I remember seeing men in the back of a van just holding guns and rifles. And I remember pulling up at the house and seeing the tree that had always been there completely charred." Police and fire brigade records show that her neighbourhood suffered following a huge blaze started nearby by rioters on the night of May 1, 1992. The flames quickly spread to a much larger commercial complex and high winds carried embers across a wide area, scorching everything they landed on, including Meghan's tree pn Vista Del Mar. Today, two towering palm trees stand on the front lawn of the home in which she spent school months with her father Thomas. The Duchess, who also told pupils: "Black lives matter, George Floyd's life mattered," was hailed by residents in her old street.
SUBSCRIBE Invalid email We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you've consented to and to improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and 3rd parties based on our understanding. You can unsubscribe at any time. Read our Privacy Policy
Neighbour Traci Powell, 31, said: "I saw some of Meghan's speech on TV and thought it was really woke and kind of brave of her to say. "I think, now she's a royal, she can do a lot more to inspire at least a bit of hope in people who've been having a miserable time facing first the pandemic and now violence in the street." Anthony Blanchard, 58, who has lived near Meghan's block most of his life, recalled the fear that swept entire districts during the LA riots.
Meghan, Harry and Archie are now living in LA