The giant fish took around 45 minutes to reel in
The giant fish took around 45 minutes to reel in
A group of fishermen off the coast of Sydney have reeled in a whopping 394kg tiger shark.
The fishermen took more than 45 minutes trying to pull in the huge tiger shark, before they headed back to Port Hacking in Sydney's Sutherland Shire with their catch for it to be weighed.
The massive shark could barely be contained on the boat, with images showing one of the fishermen holding onto the shark's fin to stop it tipping back into the water as they head for the shore.
Facebook/Port Hacking Game Fishing Club
Many on social media were impressed with the catch.
Advert
One person wrote: "Think you're gonna need a bigger boat."
Another added: "How the hell did you get that on the boat without destroying it. Would've been kicking very hard."
However, not all of the comments were positive, with a third writing: "What's the thrill of killing something for the sake of it? Just curious."
This isn't the first time a huge tiger shark has been hauled in in the area - back in 2019, an eight-year-old boy managed to catch a 314kg tiger shark, despite only weighing 40kg himself.
Advert
Speaking to The Daily Telegraph at the time, the youngster admitted to feeling 'nervous' as he attempted to drag the shark onto the boat.
He told the news outlet: "I was thinking that I hope the crew can (get) the shark (on the boat) because I don't want to lose it.
"I was really excited when they got it."
Port Hacking Game Fishing Club
Fishing for the sharks is legal in New South Wales, with fishermen permitted to have one tiger shark per catch.
Advert
The animals are not on the endangered list, but they are listed as 'near threatened' by the International Union for Conservation of Nature'.
But while it is permitted, not everyone agrees with the practice and some fishermen have been criticised online after sharing snaps of their catches.
Luke Palmer, a bait shop owner from New South Wales, told ABC in 2019: "I know on Facebook the young fella that caught the tiger has been ridiculed.
"The anglers are within their rights to take the fish, but it is looked upon as being a bad sport.
Advert
"When it's all done right, under the rules and regulations, there's nothing wrong with what they're doing."
The backlash some have faced prompted the New South Wales Game Fishing Association to issue guidelines on what they should share online.
The association's president Garry Chenoweth told ABC: "There are some people who are a little bit afraid of the backlash of going out there and weighing a fish - even though 90 percent of the time they're taking it for food and what they're doing is legal."
Featured Image Credit: Facebook/Port Hacking Game Fishing Club
Topics: Sharks, Animals, Australia