Our readers reacted swiftly to the Royal rumble. Here are their letters (so far).
Our readers reacted swiftly to the Royal rumble. Here are their letters (so far).
Masterful performance
I am really impressed. The carefully chosen dress, hairstyle and makeup, etc. The slow and precise verbal tones and inflections used. Slight body shift at times to emphasize certain points. Nods and appropriate pauses. Tears when appropriate, to emphasize sorrow. Rapt attention to questions. Carefully orchestrated nods, sighs and breathing.
Related stories
Careful attention to Harry, including, of course, the touching and hand-holding.
Congratulations, Meghan Markle, you are a much better actress than previously thought.
David Carr, Halifax
All perspective lost
There are currently about 13 armed conflicts raging on this planet. About 5,000 children under the age of five will die this year of diarrhea. Need I mention the virulent pandemic that has swept the globe, wreaking death and destruction, literally everywhere? A climate crisis remains a serious existential threat to the human race.
What’s the lead story in the media? Meghan Markle’s feelings have been hurt. I’m happy to say that I’m closer to the end than to the beginning.
John McMillan, Dartmouth
Slick slander
I read with fascination the remarks by the estranged Royals, Harry and Meghan. Shucks, they picked upon the hottest-button topic of the day — racism — and conveniently refused to name the offending Royal. How convenient and calculating. Their comments cannot be refuted if the offender is not named and the even more clever move slanders all Royals in one fell swoop.
Hell hath no fury like a Royal not on the gravy train.
Brian Smith, Dartmouth
Tabloids untamed
I am deeply troubled following the revelations made by the Duke and Duchess of Sussex in the interview with Oprah aired on March 7 — that the monarchy has not learned from the Diana abuse by the British tabloids, that there is bigotry among senior Royals, that no support is given to non-British commoners who become part of the Royal Family and that the Queen has no control over when or if she can meet with a member of her family.
Up until now, I have been a staunch supporter of the Royal Family as an advert for Britain and the Commonwealth, but I am forced to reconsider whether they are indeed a good example. The institution to which they belong is antiquated and appears to have no concept of right and wrong or inclusion, but just lives in fear of the tabloids.
On that score, “freedom of the press” does not mean they should be allowed to print lies, and anyone who knows the truth should speak up. The British public is not so naïve that it cannot see through falsehoods. The monarchy should not be there if it does not trust the British public and believe the British tabloids are the real rulers. What is very troubling is that the tabloids are an evil entity and have no place in a democracy if they fail to print the truth. We rely on the media to keep us informed; therefore, they have a responsibility to the truth.
Tony Morris, Dartmouth (British & Canadian citizen)
Laundry overload
Oprah Winfrey’s recent interview of the embattled Royals, Meghan and Harry, reminded me of one of my mother’s sayings: “Never wash your laundry in public.” In other words, it’s never good form to make your private matters public.
This interview was a doozy of a public washing, and certainly won’t bring Meghan and Harry back into the Royal Family’s good graces any time soon. In fact, this rift just became a mile-wide abyss.
How can you feel badly for a couple who have unbelievable privilege and sought to turn their backs on it just because things weren’t going their way, accusations aside?
After all, remember there are always three sides to every story: your version, my version and the truth. Why on the one hand say how wonderful the Queen is and then slam the Royals for lack of support and understanding on the other? I can only imagine how the Queen felt when Meghan and Harry got legally married three days before their actual Royal wedding. What a slap in the face that was! They aren't getting any sympathy from this corner.
John Moore, Halifax
Meghan and Harry's interview touched on mental health and suicide ideation. If you or someone you know is in crisis and needs assistance contact:
Nova Scotia:
Nova Scotia crisis line: Halifax: 902-429-8167 Toll-free: 1-888-429-8167
www.nshealth.ca/mental-health-addictions
http://www.ementalhealth.ca/Nova-Scotia/
Prince Edward Island:
Prince Edward Island crisis line: 1-800-218-2885
https://www.princeedwardisland.ca/en/information/health-pei/mental-health-services
Newfoundland and Labrador: