The 32-year-old former pro football player used to model Halloween costumes before joining season 16 of The Bachelorette.
Dale Moss used to model Halloween costumes before joining season 16 of The Bachelorette.
The 32-year-old former pro football player was recognized by a viewer as a Party City model for Halloween costumes.
The South Dakota native was dressed in a 'Roman Centurion' costume in which he wore an armored skirt with headband and carried a spear for an online listing.
Halloween model: Dale Moss used to model Halloween costumes before joining season 16 of The Bachelorette including a 'Roman Centurion' outfit
Dale also was seen in a 'Taco Doggy & Me' costume with a taco shell body and sombrero with a matching taco costume for a canine companion.
A third Party City listing showed Dale in a Superman costume with stomach and arm muscles added.
Dale earlier this month gained the bellwether First Impression rose from Clare Crawley, 39, during the season premiere of The Bachelorette.
Clare had an instant attraction to Dale right after he stepped out of a limousine to meet her for the first time.
Multiple costumes: The 32-year-old former pro football player was recognized as a Party City model for Halloween costumes, including muscled Superman and a taco
'I knew it,' Clare said directly into a camera as Dale walked away after they introduced themselves to each other and hugged.
I definitely felt like I just met my husband. Oh my god. I'm shaking,' Clare continued while standing in an elegant glittering gown in the driveway.
Show host Chris Harrison, 49, then appeared out of nowhere to clarify what he heard from Clare.
Yoga class: Dale was spotted Thursday in New York City after a yoga class
Mask on: The South Dakota wore a face mask amid the ongoing coronavirus pandemic
'Did you say you think you may have just met your husband?,' Chris asked.
''Every other guy, I felt a confidence with, but with Dale everything else went dark around me. I don't even know what I just said. Did I sound okay? Did I say anything at all?,' Clare said to Chris.
'You really got hit,' Chris stated.
First impression: Dale earlier this month gained the bellwether First Impression rose from Clare Crawley, 39, during the season premiere of The Bachelorette
'I felt everything that I haven't felt ever,' Clare said.Yeah,' replied Clare who became the oldest lead in the history of the Bachelor franchise.
Their strong chemistry also was on disply during the second episode of the season as Clare included Dale in the first group date of the season.
Clare left the show early after falling in love with one of the contestants and it's been widely reported that Tayshia Adams, 30, will take over the rest of her season.