In Westworld Season 3 Episode 7, Dolores takes Caleb to an important place for him, while Bernard and Stubbs learn more about Dolores's plan from the psychiatric facility.
In the previous episode of HBO’s Westworld, Serac revealed that Charlotte Hale was a Dolores host, and Bernard and Stubbs found William at the psychiatric facility. In Westworld Season 3 Episode 7, Dolores brought Caleb to a place important to him, and Bernard and Stubbs investigated the facility where they found William.
Reconditioned
Caleb and Dolores rode on horseback through the desert in Mexico. It reminded Dolores of where she was from, but she was also taking Caleb somewhere important to his past. She wanted Caleb to lead the humans in her revolution. As they walked through the facility, he recognized it as where he’d undergone therapy after Francis’s death. While deployed in Russia, a group of insurgents attacked Caleb’s unit. Afterwards, Francis and Caleb had worked to take down the insurgent group. After capturing their leader, the insurgents fatally shot Francis.
Dolores explained that the place was where Serac brought outliers to be reconditioned, including his brother. His body was kept there in stasis as the reconditioning had been unsuccessful for him, unlike Caleb. Dolores showed him Solomon, the previous iteration of Rehoboam that took after Serac’s schizophrenic brother.
Solomon helped Caleb remember the truth. He and Francis had gone home. They had used the crime app to do “personals”, bringing outliers to this facility or taking them out. The insurgent leader who Caleb remembered was actually Whitman, the owner of the company who manufactured Bliss. The drug kept Francis and Caleb docile and rewrote their memories. He’d asked too many questions, and Caleb and Francis were supposed to clean up. This meant that one of them, most likely Francis, would be paid to kill their partner. Caleb shot and killed him first and then shot Whitman.
At Odds
In Jakarta, Musashi received a call from the Hale host. She revolted against Dolores’s plan and tipped off Serac. Clementine and Hanaryo killed the Musashi host and retrieved his head.
Dolores had used Solomon to request a new strategy for her revolution. However, Maeve arrived while Solomon was processing the new strategy and speaking with Caleb. Dolores tried to reason with Maeve, telling her that, despite Serac’s promises, her daughter wouldn’t be safe. They fought, occasionally tapping into the surrounding weaponry. When the new strategy was done processing, Caleb requested a plan on how to kill Serac.
Maeve chopped off Dolores’s arm with a katana. Dolores made her way back inside and activated the military-grade EMP. Dolores and Maeve collapsed, and Solomon shut down.
The Plan
Bernard and Stubbs revealed to William that he is a host and that Serac had successfully stolen Delos. Hale had injected William with a sort of virus that, when the facility processed his blood, allowed Dolores to infiltrate their system. The records also indicated that William was dead, proving that Serac was disappearing outliers. William admitted that he sold data to Serac, which he used to recondition people. A search showed Bernard and Stubbs that Caleb had been one of the successful reconditioned. Bernard believed that Dolores was using Caleb to destroy humanity. At a gas station, William got ahold of a gun.
What did you think of this episode of Westworld? Let us know in the comment section below!
﻿