Videos and pictures of a food truck with Being Haangryy written on it is going viral on social media. Salman Khan is providing food items to needy people through his new initiative, Being Haangryy.
After educating people about Covid-19 through videos and providing monetary help to daily wage workers of Bollywood, Salman Khan as started another initiative to feed people affected by the novel coronavirus. The star, through his production house, is now providing food items and has named the initiative 'Being Haangryy'.
Through Being Haangryy, volunteers provide food items to the people in need with the help of food trucks in Mumbai. While Salman Khan didn't announce any such initiative on his social media account, videos and pictures of a truck active in Mumbai are doing the rounds on social media.
advertisement
In the videos, volunteers can be seen distributing packets of food items to people. Fans are praising the star for this initiative. One fan wrote, "Respect." Another wrote, "Proud to be your fan @BeingSalmanKhan."
Salman Khan is currently in isolation at his farmhouse in Panvel, Mumbai. The actor is accompanied by some of his family members including sisters Arpita and Alvira and their families. Some of Salman Khan's friends are also quarantining at the actor's farmhouse. The friends include Jacqueline Fernandez, Iulia Vântur and Niketan Madhok.
On Sunday, the Dabangg actor sent out food packets and ration the people in need from his farmhouse. He posted a video on Instagram, in which he is seen loading ration sacks in trucks, along with Jacqueline Fernandez, Iulia Vantur, Waluscha De Sousa and others. The video shows ration being carried in bullock carts, lorries and mini trucks, with Salman saying "thank you" to the drivers and workers.
He also shared a video of his friends, Baba Siddique and Zeeshan Siddique, preparing food packets to be distributed among people affected by the lockdown. Salman Khan urged people to take up Anna Daan Challenge and provide food to people.
Baba and baba's baba zeeshan ne aan baan aur shaan se 1,25,000 families ko ration bataa hai.
Now this is a challenge that one should be a part of.. Challenge 'Anna Daan'
Karo to khud ya kissi bharosemand ke through...@BabaSiddique @zeeshan_iyc pic.twitter.com/317KPrxWyp — Salman Khan (@BeingSalmanKhan) April 28, 2020
Salman Khan had earlier provided financial support to 25,000 daily wage workers from the industry hit by the ongoing nationwide lockdown. He has also been educating people about the novel coronavirus and had urged fans to stay home and follow the lockdown guidelines issued by the government.
ALSO READ | Salman Khan donates ration to needy from Panvel farmhouse. Iulia Vantur and Jacqueline Fernandez join in
ALSO READ | Salman Khan: Bhagwan, Allah ke ghar jaana hai, niklo bahar. Marna sabko hai. Lekin koi marna chahta hai?
ALSO READ | Salman Khan goes on a horse ride after having breakfast with his love. See video
ALSO WATCH | Salman Khan donates ration to needy from Panvel farmhouse