The new Tata Safari will be unveiled today. Here are some important details you should know about the SUV.
The all-new Tata Safari 2021 will be unveiled in India today. We have already informed you that the 2021 Safari showcases Tata Motors' Impact 2.0 design language and is based on the OMEGA architecture. But before the automaker finally takes the wraps off the 2021 Tata Safari, let us check out some important details about the SUV.
2021 Tata Safari Launch
The new Tata Safari launch is expected to take place in India in February 2021.
advertisement
2021 Tata Safari Price
We are expecting the new Tata Safari price in India to be between Rs 15 lakh and Rs 22 lakh (ex-showroom).
2021 Tata Safari Bookings
The official bookings for the new Tata Safari will open in India this month only.
2021 Tata Safari Rivals
Following its launch in India, the new Tata Safari will take on the MG Hector Plus and the Mahindra XUV500.
2021 Tata Safari Specifications
Powering the new Tata Safari will be the same Kryotec 2.0-litre turbocharged diesel engine that is employed by the Tata Harrier. The motor develops 170PS of maximum power and 350Nm of peak torque. It is mated to a standard 6-speed manual transmission, with an option for a 6-speed torque converter automatic.
2021 Tata Safari Features
The stylish chrome front grille in the new Tata Safari is flanked by projector headlamps. The dual-tone front bumper looks quite muscular. There are LED tail lamps at the rear. A stepped roof, along with a longer rear overhang, provides a distinct character to the SUV. The diamond-cut alloy wheels look quite sporty. The new Safari will be available in six-seater and seven-seater configurations. Inside its cabin, you will come across an Oyster White theme with Ash Wood dashboard. The cabin is expected to be loaded with features like touchscreen infotainment system, fully-automatic temperature control with HVAC, multifunction steering wheel and digital instrument cluster. The 2021 Safari boasts of a panoramic sunroof as well.