New Mexico Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham and state officials held a remote news conference Tuesday to provide an update on the state’s efforts against COVID-19. New Mexico released data for hospital capacity in the state showing 2,339 of 2,872 adult hospital beds are currently occupied and 432 of 605 intensive care unit beds are occupied. Secretary for Health and Human Services Dr.
New Mexico Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham and state officials held a remote news conference Tuesday to provide an update on the state’s efforts against
New Mexico released data for hospital capacity in the state showing 2,339 of 2,872 adult hospital beds are currently occupied and 432 of 605 intensive care unit beds are occupied.
Secretary for Health and Human Services Dr. David Scrase said last week’s average daily new cases total was 525 and New Mexico currently has one of the highest rates of spread in the U.S. at 1.27.
“New Mexico had 819 COVID-19 cases last Friday, the largest number our state has ever seen and our hospital cases are rising again,” Dr. Scrase said. “What’s most distressing is that we’ve had record case counts in every age group. Most concerning is patients over 50-years of age account for most hospitalizations. If we want to see our case numbers and hospitalizations go down, we must all take action and pull together.”
“This last week has been scary,” Gov. Lujan Grisham said. “It’s been unsettling and upsetting to see everybody’s hard work and sacrifice undone in only a few short weeks. That is the awful, relentless nature of this virus, this invisible enemy of ours. And when we begin talking about straining our state hospital capacity – when we talk about the availability of beds, of health care workers to treat New Mexicans in need – we are talking about a crisis that would unequivocally lead to more significant illness and more needless death in our state. We cannot afford to take that risk lightly. We must not panic, and we must act."
According to Dr. Scrase, New Mexico’s 7-day test positivity rate is currently 6.5%, a 91% increase since Oct. 1.
Gov. Lujan Grisham announced some changes coming to target hot spots and mitigate spread of COVID-19 in New Mexico.
Beginning Friday, Oct. 23, businesses in New Mexico that record four rapid responses in a 14-day period will be required to close for two full weeks. This order applies to food and drink establishments, retail establishments, places of lodging and close-contact businesses defined in the state’s public health order.
Additional safety measures are also being put in place for food and drink establishments to be able to offer indoor dining at a maximum capacity of 25%.
These measures include:
Requiring establishments to complete the New Mexico Safe Certification training program.
Requiring establishments to consent to spot COVID-19 testing of employees.
Requiring establishments to keep a logbook of all customers who dine-in for 3 weeks to support contact tracing.
Food and drink establishments have until Oct. 30 to become certified or they will not be able to operate indoor dining.
Carol Wight, the CEO of the New Mexico Restaurant Association considers these new rules, reasonable.
“We’re thrilled that the Governor didn’t choose to close restaurants down again and found another way to help keep us open,” Wight said.
Ace Perez, the owner of the local Las Cruces restaurant Dicks Cafe said he was worried, about the governors update today.
“We’ve suffered so much through this thing, I just really want it to be over. Obviously my biggest fear was being closed down for inside dining,” Perez said.
He said he’s more than happy to abide by these rules, if it means they get to stay open.
“We’ll do what she says we have to do in order to stay open and continue to keep our businesses open, continue to make our payments, continue to pay my employees and stuff,” Perez said.
New Mexico’s contact tracers said food and drink establishments remain a top source of possible COVID-19 exposure.
“None of us want to hunker back down,” Lujan Grisham said. “But practicing social distancing and wearing our masks and staying home whenever we can is the best public health tool we have to protect our state and our health care workers and hospitals. It’s incumbent upon all of us to take those steps. The quicker we all act, the more united we are in our action, the quicker we will get through to the other side of this wave, and the sooner it will be safer again to spend socially-distant time outside with loved ones and friends. My administration will continue our outreach to cities and counties statewide to talk about the importance of enforcement and proactive measures that encourage New Mexicans to limit their time outside the home and to engage in only the safest behaviors in public and around others."
Lujan Grisham also announced that retail spaces will be required to close by 10 p.m. every night and encouraged New Mexicans to shop alone or consider online shopping and curbside pickup.
“We know shuttering businesses statewide would be devastating economically for our state," Lujan Grisham said. I am determined to avoid that untenable scenario, if we can, and so I am determined to try aggressive and strategic mitigation before reaching for that emergency measure. We know a lot more about this virus than we did earlier this year. We know that spending time indoors when not at home is a primary vector for transmission. We know that spaces where individuals cannot wear masks – such as food and drink establishments – enhance the risk of transmission. We know out-of-state travel enhances the risk of transmission. And we know that ten cases become one hundred and one hundred become one thousand very, very quickly. That’s why we are targeting the areas where risk is greatest and where cases are piling up – and hopefully we can sustain workers and livelihoods and beat back this virus and buy much-needed time for our health care system as we once again flatten the curve and stabilize the public health conditions in New Mexico.”
On Tuesday, 20,165 of which have since recovered, and 942 people in the state have died from the disease, according to the New Mexico Department of Health.
The NMDOH also reported a high number of COVID-19-related hospitalizations in the state Monday, with 205 people across New Mexico hospitalized for the disease.
“Please stay home,” Lujan Grisham said. “Please, when you must go out, wear a mask, and avoid groups. Shop alone – don’t bring the whole family. Over the next week, two weeks, three weeks, please be extremely conservative in deciding how much time to spend outside of the home. The visit to friends can wait – it’s not worth your life, or theirs. The visit to family can wait – it’s not worth your life, or theirs. Take care and take caution, and we will successfully protect our hospitals and health care workers.”
______________________________________
Stay up to date with what's happening in our area by