Bury North MP James Daly urged people not to travel into Summerseat, near Ramsbottom, following Wednesday's fatal explosion which saw a Hazel Wilcock, aged 61, killed
Bury North MP James Daly urged people not to travel into Summerseat, near Ramsbottom, following Wednesday's fatal explosion which saw a Hazel Wilcock, aged 61, killed
People from outside village 'travelled to scene of home explosion' after woman killed
People who reportedly travelled into a quiet village to gawp at the scene of a fatal home explosion have been slammed by a local MP.
Member of Parliament for Bury North James Daly said he understands outsiders flocked to Summerseat, near Ramsbottom, following the incident which saw 61-year-old Hazel Wilcock killed.
The Conservative politician last night urged people to refrain from gathering in the area around East View with an emergency presence remaining in place.
"I have received a number of reports of people travelling into Summerseat to look at what is going on - please do not do this," he said in a Facebook post on Thursday.
Are you affected by this story? Contact us on webnews@mirror.co.uk
"The emergency services are now having to spend time moving people along and have had issues with people trying to access the immediate area all while they are trying to deal with the situation.
"Tragically somebody has died and many village residents are badly shaken so please respect the situation and stay away."
He went on to say: "The community has really shown amazing spirit with donations and even offers of houses for those affected.
Image: St Ann's Hospice/MEN MEDIA) St Ann's Hospice/MEN MEDIA)
"Please don't let this be overshadowed by those who are trying to look at the scene."
All three emergency services descended on the area on Wednesday evening following the suspected gas blast reduced a stone cottage to rubble.
The first 999 calls were made just before 9.30pm.
Image: PA) PA) Image: STEVE ALLEN) STEVE ALLEN)
A mum and her young daughter, aged seven, who lived next door, together with their shih tzu dog, were helped to safety by a neighbour.
They were both subsequently taken to hospital.
Unfortunately, the occupant of the destroyed cottage was found dead inside her home.
Initially, 13 properties in the surrounding area were evacuated, though police confirmed yesterday all but those five nearest the explosion had now returned.
Fire crews are set to remain at the scene until at least the weekend, with a police cordon in place.
Greater Manchester Police and Greater Manchester Fire and Rescue Service both declined to comment on Mr Daly's post.
The Mirror has contacted the MP for further comment.