After phasing out third-party cookies, Google now finalized to stop selling ads to track users. Google announced on Mar. 3 that it will now halt all operations in tracking users through targeted ads.
Google announced on Mar. 3 that it will now halt all operations in tracking users through targeted ads. By early 2022, the tech giant also decided to end support in using browser cookies for users' safe browsing experience.
Google Will Not Rely Anymore on Tracking Ads for its Users
Director of Product Management, Ads Privacy and Trust David Temkin posted on a blog post that the company will not be leaning on the targeted ads in tracking users' activity and information. Before, the company has been reliant on utilizing its third-party cookies for tracking purposes, but now, the said method is removed from its book.
Last year, the California-based corporation said that it was now on its plan to delete the browser cookies two years from now. This was a huge initiative for Google, specifically named Privacy Sandbox. This plan is headed towards improving privacy security among its users.
"Today, we're making explicit that once third-party cookies are phased out, we will not build alternate identifiers to track individuals as they browse across the web, nor will we use them in our products," Temkin said in a blog post.
The browser cookies in the past month have been the big issue when it comes to building ads for business concerns. The removal of the cookies was prompted after the Markers group requested a review for the tech giant's action.
Furthermore, Temkin said that the 'privacy-preserving APIs' will now be assigned to generating ads for the publishers and advertisers. These will not track the users' data in Google products.
Read Also: Mozilla Firefox 86: 'Total Cookie Protection' to Safeguard Users From Online Tracking
Temkin added that people should be keen on what they clicked on the web. He continued that there is no need for the advertisers to track the consumers to acquire the full benefits from the ads.
For instance, he exemplified that a method such as 'group clustering' will render ads to people with the same interests. It will also provide the relevance that people seek compared to the method that only targets people.
How Google Will Fare With the Loss of Browser Cookies?
Reuters reported that some options stated how Google can cope up with the removal of the browser cookies in targeting users through advertisements.
For the first option, it should be understood that sharing data without the user's permission has been rampant across all webs. The move, however, should prompt a company to instead tighten its browsing security for its users, instead of exploiting their data.
On the other hand, the competition between companies has been steady in the past years. The browser cookies are used for targeting users through ads. However, what's bad with these cookies is that they are sometimes used in tracking for branding.
Other options include antitrust accusations and common interests among people.
Related Article: Google Phases Out User-Tracking Cookies, May Pursue FLoC as Replacement
This article is owned by Tech Times.
Written by Joen Coronel
ⓒ 2024 TECHTIMES.com All rights reserved. Do not reproduce without permission.