Sony is reportedly keen to avoid a Microsoft-style misfire during its June showcase by limiting games not running on a PlayStation 5.
Rumors suggest Sony will host a next-gen event early next month to showcase upcoming PlayStation 5 games.
A new report says that Sony will limit the number of games not running on PS5.
The Japanese gaming giant looks eager to avoid a Microsoft-style misfire.
A new report suggests Sony’s rumored early June PlayStation 5 showcase aims to avoid the same mistakes that made Xbox’s notorious Series X gameplay event such a debacle.
As such, the Japanese gaming giant allegedly intends to limit the number of showcase titles that feature footage not captured directly on a PS5.
Yes, the PS5 Showcase Will Feature Actual PS5 Footage
The rumor comes courtesy of VentureBeat reporter Jeff Grubb in a Resetera forum comment.
Referencing Sony’s upcoming showcase, Grubb explains:
Sony just wants to limit the use of the “disclaimer: this game is running in a PC environment but will be optimized for PS5.”
In particular, Sony seems intent on cutting down on the number of third-party games not running on PlayStation 5.
The move should undoubtedly please fans eager for a look at the console in action. It would represent a welcome departure from the unrepresentative pre-rendered, CGI-heavy trailers that so often flood similar events.
Sony will presumably want to capitalize on the good faith reaped by the resoundingly positive response to the Unreal Engine 5 tech demo. That demo, which ran on a PS5, was showcased by Epic Games earlier this month.
Microsoft Misfires, Sony Pounces
The approach is particularly pertinent given Microsoft’s recent next-gen gameplay misfire.
Earlier this month, Microsoft kickstarted a summer of next-gen-focused episodes of Inside Xbox with a gameplay-themed segment. Despite Microsoft touting the event as the first look at the games set to usher in the next-gen, it featured next to no sustained gameplay.
Developers stamped many of the trailers with disclaimers stating “footage representative of expected Xbox Series X gameplay” or similar wording to that effect. An underwhelming selection of third-party titles didn’t help.
The upshot was that Microsoft weathered the first misstep in an otherwise perfectly-paced promotional march to the Xbox Series X launch at the end of 2020.
This latest rumor suggests Sony wants to avoid a similar situation and finally treat gamers to a genuine look at the PS5 in action.