KEEPING UP WITH PSALM Kim Kardashian reveals her son Psalm, 1, ‘just started walking’ and shares sweet photos of tot
KIM Kardashian has shared a sweet throwback to her "baby boy" as she reveals her one-year-old is now walking.
Kim and husband Kanye West welcomed Psalm, their second son, in May 2019, and the reality star has now shared a throwback of her giving her baby a cuddle.
11 Kim shared a throwback to a baby Psalm Credit: Instagram
She captioned the snaps: "My baby boy Psalm is the sweetest! He just started walking!"
The 39-year-old reality television star recently shared a picture of all four of their children, which she captioned, "my heart."
The picture showed North, six, four-year-old Saint, two-year-old Chicago, and Psalm on the outside ground together in speckled sunshine.
Saint was caught making a peace sign to the camera while eldest daughter North kept a close eye on Psalm, her youngest sibling.
11 She revealed he is now walking Credit: Instagram
11 Kim shared a picture of all four of her children - North, Psalm, Chicago and Saint on Wednesday Credit: Instagram
11 The star wrote, 'my heart' Credit: Getty Images
It comes as the A-list pair have been dogged by split rumors after reports of tension in lockdown.
However, friends think a formal split is the last thing on her mind.
An insider exclusively told The Sun: “Things are tough between Kim and Kanye because they never normally spend this much time together, but she doesn’t want a divorce.
“She considers her marriage to Kanye and their family together a huge success - she’s the only sister who is married and thinks of herself and Kanye as a power couple.
11 The A-list pair have been dogged by split rumors after reports of tension in lockdown Credit: PA Wire
11 Kanye had whisked the four kids away to Wyoming
11 They have not been getting along during the lockdown Credit: MEGA
11 Kim reportedly doesn't want to split up
“The last thing she wants is a divorce - especially because the public backlash after her second divorce was unbearable.
“What I think will happen is they’ll spend time apart in different houses - but not divorce.”
The couple has been splitting their time between their $19m LA home and Kanye’s Wyoming ranch in lockdown - with a source telling The Sun that the couple was finding spending so much time together tough.
11 The pair have been married six years Credit: Instagram
11 They share four children Credit: Instagram
11 Normally Kanye would feature in her photos but he's been conspicuously absent Credit: Instagram
The source said: "Kim and Kanye are arguing and at each other's throats during this pandemic. Kim is getting stir crazy, as she's used to being on the go.
"It's also a lot of time alone with the kids for her. She is frustrated with Kanye, and thinks he's not pulling his weight in family responsibilities.
"They've been staying at opposite ends of the house to keep things civil."