What all has gone down since Danny Masterson's initial arrest?
Up until a few days ago Danny Masterson and his wife Bijou Phillips were both active on social media, sharing family photos and more. Now, while Masterson’s accounts are still active, following an arrest made by the LAPD during which the former The Ranch actor has been accused of raping several women, Bijou Phillips has deleted her Instagram.
It’s not uncommon for celebrities to take flack on the internet and sometimes even leave social media after dealing with the public, but that's often heightened when the internet comes together collectively to "cancel" someone. This week, Danny Masterson was charged with raping three women in incidents that occurred earlier in his acting career back in 2001 and 2003. Masterson has been accused of raping a 23-year-old woman in 2001 and two other women, ages 28 and 23, two years later. He’s facing three counts of “forcible rape” in the court system.
Prior to the arrest, Masterson’s former girlfriend Chrissie Carnell Bixler had previously spoken out about how she feels Danny Masterson and the Church of Scientology previously treated her. A statement she made back in 2019 mentioned that she had been told by the church to protect the former That ‘70s Show actor at all costs, noting (via The Daily Beast),
I was made to feel unimportant. I was made to feel like I didn’t matter. Like what Danny Masterson did to me didn’t matter. My body doesn’t matter, because it doesn’t belong to me. The trauma and emotional pain doesn’t matter, because I just don’t matter. ‘Danny Masterson is a celebrity. He flourishes and prospers in life. You protect that and reward that.’ -direct quote from the Church of Scientology. I don’t matter. The other women don’t matter. Our pain means nothing, and we should be good little girls and shut our mouths. No!
Chrissie Bixler also previously was interviewed for Leah Remini’s show, Scientology and the Aftermath, to speak about her experience. Along with the Danny Masterson accusation, she has also claimed the Church of Scientology has poisoned two of her dogs. Remini also spoke out after Masterson’s arrest. She said she is starting to feel as if “victims are being heard.”
Although his wife has shuttered her account, Danny Masterson has kept his social media accounts online, despite the fact it has now been peppered with comments related to the charges currently pending against him. Earlier last week, Masterson posted more that $3 million in bail. The actor’s lawyer also posted a statement regarding Masterson and Bijou Phillips alleged feelings on the matter (via Inside Edition):
Obviously, Mr. Masterson and his wife are in complete shock considering that these nearly 20-year-old allegations are suddenly resulting in charges being filed. But they and their family are comforted knowing that ultimately the truth will come out.
An arraignment has already been scheduled and Danny Masterson will be due on court to face charges on September 18. If convicted, The Ranch actor could face up to 45 years in prison.