A Florissant, Missouri, police officer who was fired 10 days after he was filmed plowing his cop car into a fleeing black man, then attacking him on the ground, has been charged with assault.
A Missouri, police officer who was fired 10 days after he was filmed plowing his cop car into a fleeing black man, then attacking him on the ground, has been charged with assault.
Joshua Smith, 31, has been charged with two counts of assault, one felony and one misdemeanor, and one count of armed criminal action, prosecutors announced Wednesday.
“The moment he turned his headlights towards that individual, that became a 4,000 pound missile,” St. Charles County Prosecutor Tim Lohmar said at a press conference.
A doorbell camera caught Smith crash his SUV into a man he was pursuing on June 2 in Florissant, a northern suburb of St. Louis.
The man had run out of a black Dodge Charger that had allegedly been linked to a shooting near the Ferguson Police Department three nights earlier, but the man’s attorney has questioned how Smith would have known it was the car in question.
“He had no idea what was going on,” his lawyer, Jermaine Wooten, told KSDK. “He tried to run to safety, to get away from the vehicle, and then at that very moment is when he was struck by the car.”
Smith claimed the man “darted” in front of his car, but Lohmar said the footage of the incident “proves that’s patently false.
“That didn’t happen that way,” Lohmar said Wednesday.
Beyond the first-degree assault charge, Smith also faces minor assault charges for kicking the man while he was on the ground.
“Immediately thereafter the victim, you see is knocked down, he’s in tremendous pain and he’s screaming. He gets up and he tries to run away and realizes he can’t do that. So he falls in the yard, which is just about six feet away from the point of impact,” Lohmar said Wednesday. “And he’s on his back and you see Officer Smith, before he tries to apprehend the victim, he kicks him and later strikes him.”
The man, who has not been publicly identified, suffered a broken ankle during the attack.
An attorney for Smith told KMOV that the incident was “simply an accident.”
Smith has been released on a $50,000 bond.
Two other officers who were in Smith’s car have been placed on leave.