Actor Terry Crews has found himself at the centre of backlash from fans after posting a controversial tweet about “black supremacy.”
This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.
USC valedictorian's speech torpedoed after she called for 'abolition' of Israel
Freeland's 2024 budget to be 'worst since 1982': Former BoC governor David Dodge
Terry Crews sparks outrage after 'black supremacy' tweet Photo by Jean-Baptiste Lacroix / AFP via Getty Images
Reviews and recommendations are unbiased and products are independently selected. Postmedia may earn an affiliate commission from purchases made through links on this page.
Article content Actor Terry Crews has found himself at the centre of backlash from fans after posting a controversial tweet about “black supremacy.”
Advertisement 2 Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.
Article content The Brooklyn Nine-Nine star took to Twitter on Monday to share his tweet in the wake of the Black Lives Matter protests around the world, prompted by the death of George Floyd at the hands of police officers. We apologize, but this video has failed to load.
tap here to see other videos from our team. Try refreshing your browser, or Terry Crews sparks outrage after 'black supremacy' tweet Back to video “Defeating White supremacy without White people creates Black supremacy. Equality is the truth. Like it or not, we are all in this together,” Crews tweeted.
Article content Defeating White supremacy without White people creates Black supremacy. Equality is the truth.
Like it or not, we are all in this together. — terry crews (@terrycrews) June 7, 2020
Travel Time Plan your next getaway with Travel Time, featuring travel deals, destinations and gear. There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By signing up you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Travel Time will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again
Article content
Advertisement 3 Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.
Article content Just seconds after posting the tweet, Crews began receiving messages slamming him for the post. Among those who took issue with the screen star’s post was his Everybody Hates Chris co-star Tyler James Williams, who replied to him: “Terry, brother, I know your heart and you know I have love for you and always will. No one is calling 4 black supremacy & the narrative that we are hurts our cause & our people. We’re just vigorously vetting our ‘allies’ because time & time again they have failed us in the past. “Our people are tired of white people who put on a good face a claim they ‘arnt (sic) racist’ while operating and benefiting from the privilege of a clearly racist system. We’re not trying to do this alone. We KNOW we can’t. But we refuse to have allies who won’t go the distance.” Your platform is huge man. You out here getting it and I LOVE to see it. I will always be a fan of you winning. But with all of that growth and diversity comes a huge amount of responsibility to remember that every word we say can be used to help the movement or hurt it. — Tyler James Williams (@TylerJamesWill) June 8, 2020
Advertisement 4 Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.
Article content Williams added that he wasn’t trying to “call out” Crews, and insisted it’s “all love always,” as he concluded: “But we’re rightfully angry right now and fed up with anyone not with our cause wholeheartedly. I don’t want to see that energy pointed your way or diverted from the cause.” Responding, Crews tweeted Williams: “I understand, Tyler. I was not saying Black supremacy exists, because it doesn’t. I am saying if both Black and Whites don’t continue to work together – bad attitudes and resentments can create a dangerous self-righteousness. That’s all.” We apologize, but this video has failed to load.
tap here to see other videos from our team. Try refreshing your browser, or Play Video Crews also responded to comedian Godfrey, who tweeted that he disagrees with the actor “100%.” “No such thing as Black Supremacy. That is a tactic that Racist whites use to counteract our rebellion to their horrific treatment of us. It’s called Gas lighting. Black pride isn’t anti white,” Godfrey wrote, to which Crews replied: “I agree. I’m not discussing white people here. there are ‘gatekeepers of Blackness’ within our own community who decide who’s Black and who’s not. I have often been called out for not being ‘black enough’. How can that be?” Other stars to take issue with Crews’ tweet, who didn’t receive a response from the America’s Got Talent host, included Orlando Jones, Jeffrey Wright and Jodie Turner-Smith. We apologize, but this video has failed to load.
tap here to see other videos from our team. Try refreshing your browser, or Play Video Crews later returned to Twitter to share a follow-up tweet, which read: “Any Black person who calls me a coon or and Uncle Tom for promoting EQUALITY is a Black Supremist (sic), because they have determined who’s Black and who is not.” Any Black person who calls me a coon or and Uncle Tom for promoting EQUALITY is a Black Supremist, because they have determined who's Black and who is not. — terry crews (@terrycrews) June 8, 2020
Advertisement 5 Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.
Article content
Article content
Share this article in your social network
Read Next
Latest National Stories