With his fifth studio record, the musician has discovered more about himself than ever before.
With his fifth studio record, the musician has discovered more about himself than ever before.
Dropping in September, Tickets To My Downfall saw Machine Gun Kelly put rap on the back burner this time round, instead deciding to produce his own 'love letter' to pop punk.
The album is a tight 15-track package of guitar-driven power vibes, featuring the likes of Halsey, Blackbear, not to mention Yungblud and The Used's Bert McCracken for good measure.
Loading
With the bulk of the production managed by MGK himself and Blink-182's Travis Barker, Tickets To My Downfall is funnily enough, one of the most natural sounding albums the US artist has made, even though it's the most different sounding in his catalogue.
When it comes to the lane change of sounds on Tickets To My Downfall, MGK isn't fussed about perceptions surrounding the music or how people may think it's going to change his career.
"I just love music, I don't even separate them to be honest." he told Sally and Erica on triple j Breakfast.
"I'm watching kids who weren't even around for a pop punk scene; I'm talking about 18 year olds or 16 year old TikTok-ers vibing heavy to this music when, what they're listening to is Migos and hip-hop."
"It transcends genre to me, whatever form this album is coming in; even though it is clearly a love letter from me to pop punk."
In making Tickets To My Downfall, MGK and Travis Barker locked themselves away in a studio in Los Angeles for almost two months, engaging with different ideas and sounds.
Off the back of a random late night run in on Sunset Boulevard, the two found themselves drawn together pretty quickly.
"He was coming out of a tattoo shop at 2am in the morning and I was leaving a club, walking to a secret bar," MGK remembered.
"I was on the other side of Sunset and he either yelled out, or I yelled out 'Travis!'...we got in [the studio] and just didn't stop recording for a month and a half straight. It was going off."
Barker already has a strong record of hip-hop collaborations, having worked with everyone from Lil Wayne to Kanye West, Ty Dolla $ign, Post Malone and Run The Jewels. And working with MGK on this record followed naturally on from their previous work on MGK's Hotel Diablo album last year.
Loading
When it came to their work in 2020 though, even MGK didn't know Tickets To My Downfall would turn out the way it has.
"[It] wasn't even what I planned when I went into the studio with Travis that first night," he admitted.
"'Bloody Valentine' just happened, that was the first thing we did. It's hard to switch lanes when that's the first thing that comes out. It just came naturally."
Loading
Reflecting on where he feels Tickets To My Downfall sits alongside his other work, MGK told Sally and Erica that a lot of this album came from being a little lost in the sauce, trying to figure out what he was doing with his life.
"Even thought I had just had a successful album with Hotel Diablo it still felt like, career-wise, I hadn't made that project that rang through the universe yet." he said.
"That's a hard pill to swallow when you've done four albums and five mixtapes or whatever the numbers are. Most times, by the time you get to a fifth album, you don't even care what the artist has to say, you know? There's very few ones in history that don't top out after their first two albums. For me, I felt like I just came into myself on Hotel Diablo and this album."
Check out more of Sally and Erica's hang with MGK, as he talks hitting home runs while on acid below!