Read Mark Hamill's message to the Star Wars fans who turned the beloved franchise into a cultural phenomenon.
The Star Wars story is far from over, but Mark Hamill’s involvement with the series is likely at an end. Since Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker was marketed as the final chapter in the Skywalker Saga, it seems safe to assume that we’ve seen the last of Luke Skywalker on the big screen. Hamill himself appeared to confirm that theory with a new thank you message to Star Wars fans that he posted on Twitter. It was previously exclusive to the Best Buy Skywalker Saga 4K set. You can read it for yourself below.
A few thoughts as one era ends and another begins…#StarWars pic.twitter.com/ZucNHEPtaS — Mark Hamill (@HamillHimself) April 3, 2020
Although it would be 32 years before he got to play Luke Skywalker again in The Force Awakens, Hamill remained irrevocably tangled up in the Star Wars world. He’s arguably the face of the whole franchise; which, he pointed out, nearly came out under a very different name.
“Back in 1976, when Carrie, Harrison, and I were testing for our roles in what was then called The Adventures of Luke Starkiller, as taken from the Journal of the Whills, Saga I: The Star Wars, there’s no way we could have known what an incredibly rich and imaginative set of adventures this little space movie would launch, inspiring eight more chapters to tell the entire Skywalker story,” wrote Hamill.
Hamill went on to thank all Star Wars lovers, whether they were there from the beginning or joined later on. He also offered a bit of wisdom on behalf of his late co-star, Carrie Fisher.
“As Carrie once said, Star Wars is about family, and that is what we all have become,” added Hamill. “One giant community that shares the experience of these stories and the fundamental value they instill in us.”
“I am deeply thankful for all your continued enthusiasm and dedication to George’s faraway galaxy,” continued Hamill. “Which will continue to grow with new storytellers building an even bigger gallery, filled with heroes, villains, action, romance, and, of course, The Force.”
What do you make of Mark Hamill’s thank-you letter to Star Wars fans? What will you miss the most about his performance as Luke Skywalker? Let us know in the comments down below!
Recommended Reading: Star Wars by Jason Aaron Omnibus