Two high school seniors in Georgia were expelled for posting a “racist” video on social media, district officials said.
Two high school seniors in Georgia were expelled for posting a “racist” video on social media, district officials said.
The students, who were not identified by Carrollton City Schools officials, were expelled from Carrollton High School Friday for a “racially offensive” TikTok video posted Thursday that later went viral, district officials announced.
In the footage, two white students — one male, one female — use a racial slur and make vile, disparaging comments about black people while in a bathroom. The students were apparently trying to mimic a cooking show.
“Hey, today we’re making n—–s,” the female student said in the clip, which was later shared on Twitter.
“First we have black, yeah, pretty black … next we have don’t have a dad … and then we have, eat watermelon and fried chicken. Next one is, uh, make good choices. Oh, there’s nothing there.”
The students continued: “Next we have rob people, specifically whites. Yeah, they do that. The last one is go to jail.”
The behavior depicted on the video was unacceptable and not representative of the district, Carrollton City Schools Superintendent Mark Albertus said.
“The racist behavior observed in the video easily violates this standard,” Albertus said. “They are no longer students at Carrollton High School.”
The school’s principal, David Brooks, said he started investigating the video after its release late Thursday.
“It is our priority to keep our schools safe, and there is no doubt this incident has caused significant tension at Carrollton High School, across the district, state and nation – even the world,” Brooks said in a statement.
Other students at the school, meanwhile, said they were shocked after seeing the footage made by their classmates.
“I walk through the halls with those folks and to see that they think about us like that,” student Juan Nievs told WGCL. “It made me angry.”
Another teen, Terrell Carmichael, said he knows both students who produced the video.
“I was mad, like angry,” Carmichael told the station. “They would not normally talk like this, it was a complete surprise to everybody in our school.”