PRESIDENT Rodrigo Duterte has approved the roadmap for the implementation of a vaccination program against coronavirus disease 2019 (Covid-19).Presidential Spok
PRESIDENT Rodrigo Duterte has approved the roadmap for the implementation of a vaccination program against coronavirus disease 2019 (Covid-19).
Presidential Spokesperson Harry Roque said the President approved the Philippine National Vaccine Roadmap presented by vaccine czar and National Task Force against Covid-19 chief implementer Carlito Galvez on Thursday, November 5, 2020.
He reiterated that, per the instruction of the President, priority will be given to the poor and indigent and frontliners (healthcare workers, soldiers, policemen, servicemen, essential services).
“All Filipinos should have the vaccine, without exception,” he added.
In a separate press conference, Galvez said a vaccine will most likely be available in the Philippines in a worst-case scenario by the end of 2021 or early 2022.
But he was hopeful that the Philippines could access 10 to 15 million doses in the second quarter of 2021, particularly in May, June or July.
He said that among the pharmaceutical companies that are in talks with the Philippines, Astra Zeneca has offered the lowest price at US$5 per dose. The Philippines has asked for access to three to five million doses, but Galvez said they were looking at seeking access to up to 10 million doses.
The Vaccine Panel of Experts has also submitted to the Inter-Agency Task Force for the Management of Emerging Infectious Diseases the names of five more vaccine candidates from the United States for consideration.
Galvez said the vaccine roadmap is aimed at accelerating the deployment of the vaccines as soon as these are available.
“Ibig sabihin po nito, mas mapapabilis na natin ang proseso ng pag-angkat ng bakuna, ngunit alam din po natin na hindi ito magiging madali kaya puspusan po ang ating ginagawang paghahanda kasama po ng ating DOH,” Galvez said.
(This will allow us to expedite the importation of vaccines. But we know this is not going to be easy which is why we are making preparations together with the DOH.)
Galvez said the most critical stage is the beginning phase, which involves scientific evaluation and selection of the vaccines. Lead agencies for this phase are the Department of Science and Technology (DOST) and DOH.
Stage 2 involves access and acquisition. This will be led by the Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA) and Department of Finance (DOF).
Stage 3 is the procurement process while stage 4 will focus on organized and safe production, shipment and storage of vaccines.
Lead agency for these phases are the Procurement Service of the Department of Budget and Management (PS-DBM) and the TaskGroup Resource Management and Logistics.
Both agencies are tasked to ensure that the acquisition and development of a vaccine are cost-effective and time-efficient.
The same agencies will be in charge of the distribution and deployment of the vaccines under the fifth stage.
Implementation of the vaccination plan nationwide will comprise stage 6 and will be a collaboration among the DOH, national and local government agencies, and local government units
Stage 7 is the assessment, evaluation and monitoring of the program to be led by the DOH, DOST and the University of the Philippines National Institutes of Health (UP-NIH).
In his regular press conference, Roque said the government is on track in the implementation of the vaccination plan.
Aside from the crafting and approval of the roadmap, the government has also organized and activated the National Task Group on Covid-19 Vaccination and Vaccine Panel of Experts.
Based on its timetable, the following should also be completed within November and December 2020: selection and procurement of vaccine; start of clinical trials; forging of bilateral and multilateral engagements and arrangements; and completion of an immunization logistics and services support plan.
Within the first quarter of 2021, or January to March, the procurement process as well as production, shipment and storage of the vaccines should have been completed.
The rollout plan for the vaccine nationwide should also be completed within the period.
Foremost of the considerations in selecting the vaccine is its safety and efficacy, Roque said.
Bilateral agreements are being eyed with China, Russia, United Kingdom, Japan, South Korea, India, Israel, Singapore, Germany and other Asean countries.
Possible tripartite agreements are as follows: Philippines-UK-business sector; government-government-vaccine manufacturer; Philippines-vaccine company-business sector; Philippines-Indonesia-vaccine company; and Philippines-United States-vaccine company.
Pooled procurement through the Asean as well as a multilateral agreement among the Philippines, Asian Development Bank, World Bank, World Health Organization and Unicef were also being looked at, Roque added.
While waiting for the vaccine, Roque reiterated the need to comply with minimum health protocols such as wearing of face mask and face shield, frequent washing of hands and physical distancing. (Marites Villamor-Ilano/SunStar Philippines)