Almost everyone in the cast, as well as a director who helmed one of Alba's episodes, share their own accounts.
Everett Collection
Almost everyone in the cast, as well as a director who helmed one of Alba's episodes, share their own accounts.
UPDATE 10/15/20 10:15 am
The director of one of the "90210" episodes on which Alba appeared, Joel Feigenbaum, also said he was "never aware" of any no-eye contact mandate.
"It's very possible somebody could have said that to her, either seriously or not. I can't imagine who it would've been," he said on a 90210 podcast this week. "Certainly wasn't one of the cast. And I can't imagine ... the only other people it might've been, an AD or maybe someone in the makeup and hair trailer."
"I don't doubt that she heard that somehow, but I certainly was never aware of it," he added, saying he never witnessed that on set. "All of the regular cast was extremely friendly and really open to the guest stars," said Feigenbaum.
update 10/8/2020 8:30 AM
The denials continued on October 8, when Brian Austin Green reacted to Alba's claim she wasn't allowed to make eye contact with the "90210" cast when she appeared on the show.
"I've f--king heard that. I never worked with Jessica. I never met her on set. I wasn't there, but I don't think she heard that from anyone reputable, like that was really around us because that wasn't ever our policy on set."
"The one thing that we really were good about on our set was making people feel welcome and feel like they were a part of the family and what we were doing and they were a part of the team," he continued. "So I can't, I can't imagine that at all. And I can't imagine that she heard that from somebody close enough to us that it, that it was a direct reflection of any one of us."
UPDATE 10/6/2020 10:21 PM
In an interview with ET on Tuesday, original "Beverly Hills, 90210" cast-member Ian Ziering said he doesn't doubt Alba's story that she was advised not to make eye contact with any of the stars.
"I'm not doubting her, I'm sure that was her experience. Someone probably told her," he said. "She's not a liar."
At the same time, though, Ziering could not shed light on who might have said it, though he was confident who it wasn't. "At the end of the day, I can't see that demand being made by any of my former cast mates," he said.
Instead, as Tori Spelling and Jennie Garth speculated, he thinks it might have been "an AD or someone on set" who would have told Alba that, adding that it was "ludicrous" for her to have been advised such a thing.
Jason Priestley echoed his co-star's sentiment that such an edict could have never come from the cast, telling KiSS 92.5's "The Roz & Mocha Show," "I don’t know who told Jessica Alba not to look at us. None of us on that show thought we were MC Hammer."
At the same time, he also did not doubt that Alba was telling her truth, while at the same time emphasizing that he "always went out of my way to make sure that our guests always felt incredibly welcome."
"I would always go and talk to them and make sure they knew that this was a place where we wanted them to succeed because I’d been on enough sets as a guest star and I always appreciated it when the regulars on the set came and made me feel that way," he shared.
ORIGINAL STORY 10/5/2020 12:02 PM
In a preview of an episode of their new podcast, "9021OMG," the actresses reacted to Alba's comments from a recent interview in which she said she was "not allowed" to make eye contact with any of the "Beverly Hills, 902120" cast members when she guest-starred on the show back in 1998.
While Garth, 48, said she doesn't remember what went down at the time, Spelling, 47, admitted that she's "so upset" and "a little horrified" that Alba didn't have a great experience during her stint on the high school drama.
"Tori, did you, I just need to know, did you tell her not to look me in the eye?" Garth jokingly asked Spelling, who then asked, "Why is it all about you?"
Garth, who starred as Kelly Taylor on the hit series and its spinoffs, said she would be the only one who could have asked for Alba not to make eye contact as she shared "all of the scenes" with her.
"If anybody was, you know, didn't want to have their eyes looked into, it would have been me," she explained. "But, I don't remember because I have the world's worst memory."
Spelling chimed in, asking if "there was like a cool memo that was going around from the producers or the ADs and we didn't even know."
"Imagine if we just thought guest stars didn't like us? 'They never looked at us! We don't know why. We were so nice,'" the mother-of-five said with a laugh.
Garth then clarified that she only had pleasant memories from working with Alba, while Spelling expressed her regret over Alba's claim, noting that she's a huge fan of her brand, The Honest Company.
"I only have, from the vague memories I have of working with her, I only remember her being super talented," Garth recalled. "She was very young. She was really sweet, and it does not surprise me that she's gone on to be so successful."
Spelling explained, "I'm not going to lie to you guys: I was a little horrified when I saw that clip that she said that she wasn't allowed to make eye contact and she had an awful experience because her baby wipes are my favorite. I wipe my child's ass with her baby wipes every single day. I'm so upset right now."
This comes just a few days after Alba, 39, detailed her experience playing a pregnant teen named Leanne in two episodes of "Beverly Hills, 90210" back in 1998.
"On the set of '90210,' I couldn't even make eye contact with any of the cast members, which was really strange when you're, like, trying to do a scene with them," the mother-of-three confessed on a recent episode of "Hot Ones."
"Yeah, it was like, 'You're not allowed to make eye contact with any one of the cast members or you'll be thrown off the set.'"
The "Fantastic Four" star was only 17 when she appeared on the 8th season of the show, which at the time starred Garth, Spelling, Ian Ziering, Brian Austin Green, Jason Priestley and Tiffani Thiessen.
Not all the original cast members were still part of the show during Alba's short tenure, including Shannen Dohert, Luke Perry and Gabrielle Carteris.
Got a story or a tip for us? Email TooFab editors at tips@toofab.com.