The power couple traded red carpet walks for minced garlic as the Grammy Awards looked very different this year.
The Grammys were definitely celebrated differently this year, due to the pandemic. Just ask Chrissy Teigen and John Legend, who casually took in the celebrations while enjoying all the luxuries of their elaborate rented mansion. The comical Instagram posts they shared with fans revealed their light-hearted humor. Since they couldn't get dressed up to enjoy the celebrations in person, they did the next best thing - dressed down and poked fun at their interesting circumstances.
Hello Magazine reports that Legend and Tiegen kept the laughs coming as they joked about the contrast between attending the Grammys in haute-couture and being adorned in diamonds with staying at their rental property while casually cooking together and learning about a Grammy win by receiving a phone call. They coined the term "House Grammys" and fans are on board with the new concept.
RELATED: 3 Of Elon Musk's Former Mansions, Worth Ranked
As much as Chrissy Teigen and John Legend may have wanted to attend the Grammys in person, this year made it impossible for them to do so, and they had to resort to alternate methods of celebration. Nobody would have ever thought that an entire year later, we would still be suffering the drastic consequences and restrictions that this pandemic has imposed upon us. Since they were unable to head out and celebrate in style, this situation led Teigen and Legend to do the next best thing...celebrate at home. Its a bit anti-climactic, but it's the Grammys, nonetheless.
At the critical moment in which it was announced that John Legend won a Grammy, Chrissy Teigen was seen wrapped in a bath towel and struggled to even understand the message that was being relayed to her by phone. You'll never guess what John Legend was doing when he discovered that he had won the Grammy for R&B Album of the year... he was mincing garlic!
John Legend and Chrissy Teigen are staying at a luxurious rental home at the moment, while their $17.5 million mansion is undergoing some renovations. According to Hello Magazine, "the property's ground-floor living space features plain white walls and dark flooring. Their enclave under the stairs is decorated with a large pot plant." It's clear from the image that they are living in the lap of luxury and are fully enjoying the sprawling mansion that they have quickly made to feel like home.
John wore a Versace gown as he roamed the 11,500 square foot residence which is fit for a king... or a Grammy winner! The mansion features 6 bedrooms, 11 bathrooms, and incredibly high ceilings. While he may not have had a chance to take the stage and accept his award at the podium, John was at least able to ring in the celebrations in a larger-than-life estate.
NEXT: 3 Luxurious Features In Trump's $17 Million Caribbean Mansion
Sources: Hello Magazine, Los Angeles Times