Your morning guide: Rishi Sunak to extend furlough until autumn and Nicola Sturgeon faces calls to resign as witnesses back Salmond claims
Rishi Sunak will announce that the furlough scheme will continue until the autumn, even as data shows that efforts to counter Covid are exceeding expectations. Unveiling his Budget today, the Chancellor will pave the way for tens of billions in extra spending by extending furlough and the Universal Credit uplift until the end of September and confirming further sizeable grants for the self-employed. This is despite new analysis showing that the decline in coronavirus deaths in England is around three weeks ahead of the central modelling estimates, fuelling calls for a quicker reopening. All will be revealed when Mr Sunak delivers his Budget speech at about 12.45pm. You can follow it here and read what we know so far about his package of measures, as well as the four major tax levers he could pull – and how much they would cost you.
Mr Sunak's face was a "complete picture of shock" when Boris Johnson offered him the job of Chancellor in February last year, according to the Treasury's glitzy video trailer for the Budget. Imagine his expression had he known that, in a matter of weeks, he would be on the way to racking up the UK's biggest-ever peacetime deficit. Russell Lynch analyses the big question Mr Sunak must answer. Philip Johnston asks whether the Chancellor can save the nation's finances without ending his career and Stephen Doig picks apart Mr Sunak's shrewdly designed style.
Sturgeon urged to resign as Salmond evidence backed
Nicola Sturgeon is facing calls to resign after two witnesses in the Alex Salmond scandal corroborated his version of key events and provided damning evidence she repeatedly misled parliament. In a potentially devastating development for the First Minister, ahead of her appearance before a Holyrood inquiry this morning, a pair of former special advisers contradicted her claims about two meetings in 2018. In a third devastating blow to the First Minister last night, her government finally published emails showing it continued a legal fight with Mr Salmond despite its lawyers advising it was likely to lose. Read on for details.
Meghan accused of 'bullying' her staff at the Palace
The Duchess of Sussex faced several bullying complaints from members of her staff during her time as a working royal, it was claimed last night, as tensions between the couple and Buckingham Palace deepened. She was reportedly accused of driving two personal assistants out of the household and undermining the confidence of a third employee. A spokesman for the Sussexes said the Duchess "is saddened by this latest attack on her character". It also emerged Meghan wore earrings during a royal tour which were a gift from Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman of Saudi Arabia who is accused of ordering the murder of the journalist Jamal Khashoggi. As the Oprah interview edges closer, Allison Pearson argues Prince Harry is dishonouring his grandparents at the worst time.
At a glance: More coronavirus headlines
Also in the news: Today's other headlines
US sanctions on Russia | The United States has imposed sanctions on the director of Russia's FSB security agency after concluding it carried out the poisoning attack on Vladimir Putin critic Alexei Navalny. Alexander Bortnikov, who has led the KGB's successor since 2008, was one of seven senior Russian officials targeted. Read on for details.
Around the world: Schoolgirls recount kidnap ordeal