FAIRFAX Co. Va. (WSET) -- Virginia State Police have initiated a criminal investigation into a cell phone video that was taken in April 2019 during a traffic stop. The video, taken by Derrick Thompson, shows an interaction between Thompson and troopers. The VSP said that they hadn't received any complaints concerning the incident or any of the individuals involved.
FAIRFAX Co. Va. (WSET) -- Virginia State Police have initiated a criminal investigation into a cell phone video that was taken in April 2019 during a traffic stop.
The video, taken by Derrick Thompson, shows an interaction between Thompson and troopers.
The VSP said that they hadn't received any complaints concerning the incident or any of the individuals involved.
"The conduct displayed by Trooper Hewitt during the course of the traffic stop is not in agreement with the established standards of conduct required of a Virginia trooper," Colonel Gary T. Settle, the Virginia State Police Superintendent, said. "Nor is it characteristic of the service provided daily across the Commonwealth of Virginia.
The video was included in a Twitter thread posted Monday by attorney Joshua Erlich. In it, he identifies his client as Derrick Thompson.
"In April 2019, Derrick Thompson was driving to work when [Virginia State Trooper Charles Hewitt] terrorized and assaulted him," Erlich writes. "You can hear Derrick plead 'Please get off my neck' as Hewitt beats him. But Hewitt is shouting "How do you like that motherf****r" as he assaults Derrick. Thankfully, Derrick survived."
Also in that thread, Erlich says his office sent a letter to Attorney General Mark Herring regarding the video.
Thompson was pulled over by a trooper on April 20 while traveling north on Interstate 495 in Fairfax County for driving with an expired inspection decal.
During the traffic stop, police said the trooper learned that Thompson was driving with a suspended driver's license. The trooper said that he also detected a strong odor of marijuana coming from inside the car. In response to these findings, additional troopers we called to respond to assist with the traffic stop.
According to police, Thompson refused to comply with the trooper's requests to exit the vehicle. About 10 minutes after Thompson was requested to exit his vehicle, Trooper C. Hewitt informed Thompson that he was under arrest. When Thompson still refused to leave his car, he was forcibly removed from his vehicle and taken into custody.
The video, taken by Thompson, shows three troopers, two at the driver's side door and one at the passenger side door.
"You're going to get your ass whooped in front of f*****g Lord and all creation," Hewitt can be heard saying.
Thompson was taken to the Fairfax County Adult Detention Center where he received a medical evaluation for a minor abrasion to his forehead.
Per Virginia's police policy, if a person sustains any degree of injury while being taken into custody, a use of force investigation is required. Trooper C. Hewitt requested a sergeant to respond to the scene to conduct an investigation. VSP also initiated an administrative investigation to address any violations of department policy.
Thompson was charged with obstruction of justice, driving on a suspended license and for the expired inspection decal.
"The Virginia State Police adheres to strict policies regarding employee conduct and requires our employees to perform their duties with exceptional professionalism and integrity and to treat the public with fairness and respect at all times," a statement from VSP said in a release Wednesday.
Trooper C. Hewitt has been placed on administrative leave pending the outcome of the investigation.