Jude Law has spoken about Johnny Depp’s exit from Fantastic Beasts. Read the full story...
Jude Law has spoken about Johnny Depp’s exit from Fantastic Beasts 3.
After a libel suit filed against The Sun newspaper was dismissed by the High Court, Depp was asked to step down from his role as Gellert Grindelwald in JK Rowling’s fantasy franchise.
Depp, 57, had originally taken the newspaper to court after the publication labelled him a "wife beater" in reference to his marriage to Amber Heard.
Speaking with Entertainment Tonight, Law acknowledged that the next instalment was an “enormous film” with “many layers to it”, saying “and in a situation like this, you defer to the studio. That's all you can do. Because you have to turn up and play your part”.
Related Story Johnny Depp loses case against The Sun
Law, who plays Albus Dumbledore in the film, continued: “It was unusual for me because, in fact, on this particular role, Johnny had actually only done a day's filming, I think, on his own.
Warner Bros.
“In a franchise like this, it's the studio and the company that make the big decisions. And you have to go along with those, because we're just a member of the team.”
Depp confirmed that he would not continue working with Warner Bros on the franchise in a statement shortly after London's Royal Court Of Justice ruled that the newspaper had proved what was in the article to be "substantially true".
Taking to Instagram, Depp wrote: “Firstly, I'd like to thank everyone who gifted me their support and loyalty.
Secondly, I wish to let you know that I have been asked to resign by Warner Bros from my role as Grindelwald in Fantastic Beasts and I have respected and agreed to that request.
“Finally, I wish to say this. The surreal judgement of the court in the UK will not change my fight to tell the truth and I confirm that I plan to appeal.
“My resolve remains strong and I intend to prove that the allegations against me are false. My life and career will not be defined by this moment in time.”