The festive season has already started and it will continue until early January. This time we all have a brand new special uninvited guest for all our celebrations. It is COVID-19. This new guest is fatal and will not go away for another two or more years. Therefore we have to live with this guest no matter whether we like it or not.
The festive season has already started and it will continue until early January. This time we all have a brand new special uninvited guest for all our celebrations. It is COVID-19. This new guest is fatal and will not go away for another two or more years. Therefore we have to live with this guest no matter whether we like it or not.
But it is not about this uninvited guest. It is about ourselves. By now we exactly know what COVID-19 is, how it spreads from one person to another, and how to prevent spreading this deadly virus. But no matter how much we know and how much we try, we are still unable to control the spread of this virus among us. It is due to the irresponsible behaviour of some people. No matter how hard our health staff and Armed Forces try to control it, some people do their best to spread it all over the country.
The funniest part is what we do this due to not being mindful. This funny behaviour of ours can lead to a disaster during this festive season. The first thing we all do is go shopping. When we go shopping we wear masks not to protect us but to protect ourselves from the law enforcement officers. But if we wear masks to protect ourselves, it will protect others too. Then we touch things as much as possible in order to buy one thing.
We can easily decide what we need, order online or go to the exact shop where it is available and buy it without much trouble. But to do all these things first of all we need to decide what we need. This should be done by all women and even men. But the majority of them remember what they need only when they are about to use it or only when they see another person using it. The other dangerous trend is spending hours and hours at air-conditioned shopping malls inhaling COVID-19.
Then comes the party time. All participants talk and laugh loudly spreading the COVID-19 virus everywhere in the room or any other place. All participants remove their masks to eat and drink. But they spend hours and hours eating and drinking without masks sitting closely to each other. This is enough to get infected with COVID-19 no matter whether you wear a N95 mask before and after eating and drinking.
Even if we avoid hugging people during parties, we are forced to sit close to each other. We touch each other while we dance. Therefore the best way of avoiding all these is staying outside of the building of the party and organizing all essential mini gatherings outside buildings. This is very common in foreign countries but not in Sri Lanka.
The other deadly part of the party is gathering inside a small space. This is an ideal place to spread COVID-19. Today we can observe that the majority of places where parties are being organized are air conditioned. Small closed places promote spreading COVID-19 and when those spaces are air conditioned, the spreading takes place quickly and smoothly without much trouble. The best example is air-conditioned vehicles. The best possible defence against this is opening the shutters despite the discomfort.
You will not be able to celebrate the festive period if there is a COVID-19 positive asymptomatic person travelling with you in an air-conditioned car or van when you are going shopping. That is why health authorities constantly and strictly advise you to use three wheelers which have a polythene partition in the middle which is not damaged and if it is a car or cab, order the driver to switch off the A/C and open all shutters before getting into the vehicles.
When observing the behaviour of people in Sri Lanka it is obvious by now that we can protect ourselves if we really need to. Therefore it is up to us to protect ourselves, no matter what others do. We can use various tactics and be creative in order to protect ourselves, especially the aged and the individuals who suffer from Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs) such as diabetes, cancer, kidney diseases, liver diseases, hypertension, chronic respiratory diseases, etc and the persons who have undergone organ transplant surgeries.
We can wear N95 masks whenever possible and when we can afford to do so. Then we can keep a good hand sanitizer with us all the time and also a small piece of soap. We can always avoid crowded places and events. We can use online services. We can ask another healthy and young family member or a friend to go into air-conditioned rooms such as pharmacies and supermarkets and buy what we need. We can cut down the time we spend in those spaces by making a list and doing shopping.
If we are being forced to attend an event, we can stay outside the building as long as possible. We can wear a face shield or goggles in addition to wearing a mask when that is called for. In addition we can consult our family doctor or any other qualified doctor and get advice on taking supplements such as Vitamin D for a week or two in order to assist the body to prevent all respiratory diseases.
By now we cannot expect that young and healthy persons will protect us from COVID-19. It is up to us to protect ourselves. All of us have to play a part. The main basic health guidelines were issued by the Government and the health authorities nine months ago, after all.
They are wearing a proper mask when going out covering both nose and mouth, not touching the mask to adjust it, keeping at least two metres’ space from another person all the time, washing hands with soap and water and using a standard hand sanitizer whenever soap and water not available and avoiding touching face with contaminated hands. No matter whether it is a party or not or anyone watching you or not, you have to do all these things in order to protect yourself from COVID-19.
The latest COVID-19 deaths’ analysis in Sri Lanka will give an idea about what happened and to whom. Seventy-eight (78) persons out of the 184 who died from COVID-19 in Sri Lanka were above the age of 70 years and 121 of them are from the Colombo district. The number of people who died at their homes is 75.
The number of persons who are between the ages of 61 and 70 who died from COVID-19 in Sri Lanka are 33. District-wise, the second highest number of deaths was reported from the Gampaha district and the Kalutara district, which is 15 from each district. The third age group which reported the highest number of deaths (28) is between 51 and 60 years of age.
By now we can understand very clearly what we should do and what we should not do during this festive season in order to survive COVID-19 and live longer to celebrate the next (2021) Christmas.
Social distancing keeps the virus at bay