People who come in contact with COVID-19 may be spending less time quarantined
LINCOLN, Neb. (KLKN) — The Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) announces two new guidelines for quarantining if you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus.
If you have been exposed to the virus, you only need to quarantine for ten days if you have experienced no symptoms, and have not been tested or retested since quarantining. According to new CDC research, the risk of transmission after a ten-day quarantine is between 1-10%.
If you have do get tested while quarantining and it comes back negative, you only need to stay isolated for seven if you have experienced no symptoms. This option only applies if the negative test is received 48 hours before the seven-day mark (day five of quarantining). The risk of transmission after a seven-day quarantine is between 5-12%.
Also, even if you receive your negative test on or before this deadline, you still have to complete the full seven-days. But, it is an alternative to the full 14-days.
Health officials encourage those quarantining to still be on the lookout for coronavirus symptoms.
According to the CDC’s website, quarantining “is a critical measure to control transmission” of the virus, considering 20-40% of infected persons are asymptomatic.
CDC officials hope by “reducing the length of quarantine may make it easier for people to take this critical public health action by reducing the economic hardship associated with a longer period, especially if they cannot work during that time. In addition, a shorter quarantine period can lessen stress in the public health system, and communities, especially when new infections are rapidly rising.”
These new quarantining options come after analyzing CDC data gathered throughout the pandemic. Keep in mind, these shorter time frames are only acceptable options.
“The CDC continues to recommend quarantine for 14 days is the best way to reduce the risk of spreading COVID-19,” commented CDC officials. “I want to stress that we are sharing these options with public health agencies across the country, so that they can determine how long the quarantine period should last in their jurisdictions, based on local conditions and needs.”
In addition, with more winter holidays on the way, CDC officials emphasized that “the best way to protect yourself and others, is to postpone travel and stay home.”
If you do decide to travel, it is recommended that travelers get tested one to three days before traveling and three to five days after returning home.
Original story posted Dec. 2 at 6:53 a.m.
The CDC is planning on changing the COVID-19 guidelines, a senior Trump administration official told CNN and ABC.
The CDC is expected to trim COVID-19 quarantine recommendations from 14 days to 7-10 days after exposure.
The White House Coronavirus Task Force was informed of the new plan on Tuesday by Dr. Robert Redfield, the head of the CDC, two senior officials told CNN.
“Remember when the 14-day quarantine was set up, it was very early in the pandemic when we had less information,” Michael Osterholm, Biden COVID Advisory Board member, said.
Officials say they came to this decision after having it under review for weeks and looking at all the data. Health officials say that most people are infectious within a week of exposure to the virus.
CNN obtained an operation warp speed document that estimates that the Pfizer vaccine delivery date could be as early as Dec. 15. Health officials continue to stress that masks should continue to be worn, hands should be washed, and socializing should remain distanced.