The 40-year-old has spoken out following the news saying he was "happy" to let someone take his place after five successful years on the show.
Something went wrong, please try again later.
Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.
Get the latest entertainment news sent straight to your inbox with our weekly Showbiz newsletter
Something went wrong, please try again later.
Get the latest entertainment news sent straight to your inbox with our weekly Showbiz newsletter
Ant Middleton has broken his silence after being dropped by Channel 4's SAS: Who Dares Wins.
Last night it was revealed that TV bosses no longer wanted to work with Middleton due to his “personal conduct”.
Back in June last year, Middleton came under fire after he branded Black Lives Matter protesters “absolute scum”
Channel 4 said they will never work with him again as their "views and values are not aligned".
And now the 40-year-old has spoken out following the news saying he was "happy" to let someone take his place after five successful years on the show.
Speaking on Twitter, he said: "“After five years on the show it just felt like I had achieved everything I could with the format."
(Image: Getty Images)
“There’s so many other formats that I am working on now that feel more suited to who I am today.
“It’s been a brilliant experience being on that show but I'm honestly happy to let some new blood come in and put their own stamp on it.”
Ant was propelled into the limelight as the Chief Instructor on the Channel 4 television series SAS: Who Dares Wins.
Over the years, the instructor grafted a loyal following of 318k on Twitter.
The adventurer had held the post from 2015 until he found out he was dropped on Monday.
Already two SAS series have been filmed with the star and the gripping scenes will air later this year.
It comes after the star was axed over his so-called personal conduct with TV bosses, The Mirror uncovered.
A Channel 4 spokesperson told the Mirror : “Ant Middleton will not be taking part in future series of SAS: Who Dares Wins. Following a number of discussions Channel 4 and Minnow Films have had with him in relation to his personal conduct it has become clear that our views and values are not aligned and we will not be working with him again.”
Previously, Ant apologised 24 hours after he called Black Lives Matter protesters "absolute scum" last year.
(Image: Instagram)
At the time, he said: “I’d just like to clarify a tweet I’d put out at the weekend and deleted straight away once I’d re-read it and realised that it could cause offence.
“I put out a tweet or retweeted a video of the violence, the terror and chaos that was happening on the streets of London. ‘Within that tweet I mentioned the BLM and EDL and the word 'scum'. At no point was I calling the BLM scum and comparing the two organisations. I want to make that really, really clear.
"The word scum was used to describe the people in the video that were violent, that were causing terror on the streets of London and setting a bad example for our future generations.”
He sparked further outrage in March when he cast doubt over whether coronavirus was a serious threat to society in an Instagram post.
Recently, Ant returned to our screens to interview actress Rebel Wilson for his Straight Talking series on Sky.