30 Second Briefing: The business has seen an uptick of almost 20 per cent since lockdown started.
Marcus, a popular easy-access online savings account, has temporarily closed to new applications.
While new customers can still apply for the Goldman Sachs-owned business’s one-year fixed rate account, they cannot currently get an easy-access account.
What’s going on with savings accounts right now?
Interest rates are low and demand for ways to save are high, as more people save on travel costs during lockdown. With returns already low, many banks have had to further slash their rates. A handful are even offering 0 per cent.
What’s the latest news?
Rate-hunters have had some disappointing news this week as Marcus, the easy-access online savings account by Goldman Sachs, closed to new applications in the UK. It has offered market-topping rates since launching here in 2018, but has now put a “temporary” pause on new customers.
Why have they done that?
The bank says it is to continue offering decent rates to its existing customers. Returns have already been chipped away over the past few months. Now Marcus has gained further popularity during lockdown, with a near-20 per cent increase since mid-March. This has put it close to regulatory limits.
What rules are they worried about?
Deposits totalling more than £25bn have to be ringfenced, which would require Marcus to split off its UK operations as a separate company. Since launching, it has brought in £21bn of savers’ money. Bosses say Marcus would not be able to offer such good rates if split off from Goldman, so they are taking steps to manage its growth.
When will it reopen?
Marcus has stressed that the pause is temporary and it hopes to reopen “in the coming months”, depending on market conditions. Its one-year fixed rate account is also still open to new and existing customers.
Why has there been such a jump in demand?
Des McDaid, head of Marcus UK, told Reuters: “We’ve really seen our growth accelerate under lockdown as people hold off on discretionary spending and take time to reorganise their finances and get the best deal for their money.”
This fits with wider reported trends of more people turning to savings since lockdown began. In April, premium bond savings hit a 14-year record as savers bought up £1.5bn of the product.