Sony's next-gen console remains out of stock at most major retailers across the U.S. but reports suggest Amazon could restock it this week.
The PlayStation 5 remains hard to get for gamers, with restocks frustratingly thin on the ground so far this week.
Sony's next-gen console was back in stock at several retailers last week but units rapidly sold out as they have done since the PS5 launched in November 2020.
Gamers waiting for further restocks have so far been left disappointed this week and the console remains sold out at most major U.S. retailers.
Here's a breakdown of the latest PS5 stock information from Target, Walmart, GameStop, Antonline, PS Direct, Amazon and more.
Amazon PS5 Restock
The PlayStation 5 is not available at Amazon. On its website, the retailer has indicated it does not know when or if Sony's next-gen consoles will be back in stock.
According to TechRadar, however, some 46,000 PS5 consoles could land on Amazon at some point this week.
Check PS5 restock at Amazon.
Antonline PS5 Restock
The PlayStation 5 remains out of stock at Antonline, whose latest restock sold out on Thursday.
The retailer has so far usually announced its restocks on Twitter and gamers should monitor its social media channels for updates.
Check PS5 restock at Antonline.
Best Buy PS5 Restock
Both versions of the PlayStation 5 are out of stock at Best Buy, whose latest restock sold out late last week. It's worth noting that the retailer has released more consoles each Friday for the last six weeks, so a new drop may be on the way on April 2.
Check PS5 restock at Best Buy.
Costco PS5 Restock
As with other retailers, the PS5 remains unavailable at Costco, whose latest restock sold out earlier this month.
Check PS5 restock at Costco.
GameStop PS5 Restock
The PlayStation 5 is unavailable at GameStop, whose most recent restock sold out on March 23. Gamers wanting to keep updated with supplies should follow Twitter gaming accounts such as @Wario64 and @GYXdeals.
Check PS5 restock at GameStop.
The new Sony PlayStation 5 gaming console is seen for sale on the first day of its launch, at an electronics shop in Kawasaki, Kanagawa prefecture on November 12, 2020. The console remains sold out... The new Sony PlayStation 5 gaming console is seen for sale on the first day of its launch, at an electronics shop in Kawasaki, Kanagawa prefecture on November 12, 2020. The console remains sold out at most major U.S. retailers. More Charly Triballeau/AFP/Getty Images
Newegg PS5 Restock
The PS5 remains out of stock at Newegg and the same applies to retailer's various PS5 bundles.
Newegg hasn't restocked its supplies since its most recent stock drop sold out earlier this month. So far, there have been no indications as to when the next restock may be scheduled for.
Check PS5 restock at Newegg.
PS Direct PS5 Restock
Both versions of the console are unavailable at PS Direct. Unlike other retailers, PS Direct uses a lottery-like system, where slots to buy the consoles are randomly assigned to users in a virtual queue.
To be alerted when the queue opens again, gamers should follow dedicated Twitter gaming accounts such as @Wario64, who alerted gamers about the drop last week.
Check PS restock at PS Direct.
Target PS5 Restock
The PlayStation 5 is still out of stock at Target, whose latest restock sold out last week.
The retailer is yet to indicate when it will release more consoles.
Check PS5 restock at Target.
Walmart PS5 Restock
Both versions of the PS5 are still out of stock at Walmart, whose latest restock swiftly sold out last week. Like Target, Walmart has not announced when it will release more units.
Check PS5 restock at Walmart.
Newsweek has affiliate partnerships. If you make a purchase using our links, we may earn a share of the sale.