Chris Watts is serving five life sentences and will spend the rest of his life behind bars for the murder of his wife and two daughters - An American Murder: The Family Next Door on Netflix tells the harrowing story
Chris Watts is serving five life sentences and will spend the rest of his life behind bars for the murder of his wife and two daughters - An American Murder: The Family Next Door on Netflix tells the harrowing story
Chris Watts is serving five life sentences for the brutal murder of his pregnant wife and his two young daughters.
The twisted father brutally killed his wife, Shan'ann, shortly after she had returned home from a business trip.
Watts then went on to smother his two daughters, Celeste, three, and four-year-old Bella to death before dumping Shan'ann's body in a shallow grave and his children in oil tankers.
He then calmly returned home, where he contacted police and reported his whole family missing.
But officers - and eventhe family's own neighbours - quickly saw through his act and he was arrested, charged and finally pleaded guilty to killing Shan'ann, Bella and Celeste.
Image: 9 News) 9 News)
To the outside world, Watts seemed like the perfect father and devoted husband and appeared to be delighted that his wife was expecting their third child, a boy they had planned to call Nico.
But what devoted Shan'ann didn't know was that her husband was cheating on her and hatched a twisted plot to kill his wife and children.
To the outside world, Watts seemed like the perfect father and devoted husband and appeared to be delighted that his wife was expecting their third child, a boy they had planned to call Nico.
But what devoted Shan'ann didn't know was that her husband was cheating on her and hatched a twisted plot to kill his wife and children.
It was when Shan'ann returned to the family home in Colorado following a business trip that Watts set his plan into motion.
Image: Netflix) Netflix)
Shan'ann and her husband had a huge row when he confessed to his affair and in the heat of the moment she told him that she would have full custody of their children.
In cold blood Watts then strangled his wife to death - but his brutal actions were witnessed.
Steven Lambert, the lawyer representing Shannan Watts family in a wrongful death lawsuit, told America's Dr Phil Show: "The night in question Shanann came home.
"She and Chris had got into a fight. They made up. They were getting along really well. Later on, they got into a fight again. In that fight he essentially confessed to having an affair, that he wanted a divorce.
"That it was pretty much over between them, and she had said something to the effect of, 'well you're not going to see the kids again'."
Image: Netflix) Netflix)
"As a consequence of that conversation he strangled her to death."
But after Watts murdered her mother and was wrapping Shan'ann's body in a blanket, little Bella walked into the room and asked "what are you doing to mummy?"
The four year old, who was said to be bright for her age "knew something was up", according to Mr Lambert.
What happened next was truly chilling. Watts bundled Shan'ann's body into the boot of the family car, put his two little girls in the backseat and belted them in.
The murderous father then drove 45 minutes to an oil field before carrying out the second part of his horrifying plan.
During the journey, Bella is said to have pleaded with her dad to take 34-year-old Shan'ann to hospital.
Image: Netflix) Netflix)
When they arrived at the oil field, first smothered Celeste with her favourite blanket. Bella witnessed the murder and begged her father not to kill her before trying to run away.
Mr Lamber explained: "At this point, Bella had unbuckled herself from the vehicle."
The prosecution at Watts' court case claimed he had killed the little girl "deliberately and viciously".
Watts then buried his wife in a shallow grave before disposing of the bodies of his two daughters in an oil tanker before returning to the family home and reporting all three of them missing.
The killer even gave interviews to the press, pleading for his family to come home and claiming he had no clue where they had gone.
Watts even sent his wife text messages, asking her where she was, after he had killed her.
Image: Netflix) Netflix)
But the net was rapidly closing in on the killer father and within days he had failed a polygraph test and would then spend the rest of his life behind bars.
Watts has never revealed any details about how he killed his whole family and as he pleaded guilty, the details didn't come out in court.
Last year, Watts spoke with agents from the FBI and CBI as well as a member of the Frederick Police Department about the murders.
Shan'ann's parents, the Rzuceks, were briefed on what was said and it has been claimed the father murdered his wife Shan'ann in an act of rage after she murdered their two young daughters.
Watts had claimed he saw the couple's daughter Bella dead in her bed and Shanann in the process of strangling Celeste on the baby monitor.
Image: Instagram) Instagram)
Local police and the FBI did not believe his story and ultimately charged the father with three counts of first-degree murder.
Watts is currently behind bars in Wisconsin, US, after being sentenced in November to five consecutive life sentences with no chance of parole.
He was only spared the death penalty because he pleaded guilty to all the charges against him.
Last year, horrifying letters penned by the triple killer emerged, where he detailed how he had murdered his family and talked about his obsession with the woman he was having an affair with, Nichol Kessinger.
Nichol knew nothing about Watts' chilling plan and believed he had separated from his wife when she started a relationship with her colleague.
She was also unaware Shan'ann was pregnant and when she discovered what Watts had done, Nichol told police everything she knew about the man she had been dating.
Image: Instagram) Instagram)
Following her testimony, Nichol has now been placed in witness protection and is believed to have changed her identity.
Written by Cherlyn Cadle, she and the killer wrote to each other and his disturbing confessions turned into the book, Letters From Christopher.
He told her: "All I could feel was now I was free to be with Nikki. Feelings of my love for her was overcoming me. I felt no remorse.
"The darkness inside of me had won, it was still in me, though, I thought maybe permanently. I felt evil, swallowed up by this thing inside of me. I felt like I could kill anything and be justified for doing it."
The chilling collection of letters included in the book also details gruesome details about how Watts killed his family, including smothering his daughters twice.
He says that even before his argument with Shan'ann, he went to Bella's room first and then Celeste's and used a pillow to smother them.
Image: Facebook) Facebook)
The killer then calmly got back into bed with his wife, argued with her and then killed her.
Watts described in horrifying detail how his wife looked as he strangled her to death.
He told Cherlyn: "Isn't it weird how I look back and what I remember so much is her face getting all black with streaks of mascara.
"Her eyes filled with blood; as she looked at me and she died. I knew she was gone when she relieved herself."
Watts wrote: "After Shanann had passed, Bella and Cece woke back up. I'm not sure how they woke back up, but they did.
"Bella's eyes were bruised and both girls looked like they had been through trauma. That made the act that much worse."
It was then that he wrapped his wife in a sheet and bundled her into the car while his terrified daughters watched on. He told Bella and Celeste that Shan'ann was "unwell".
He then drove to the oil field where he dumped his wife's body into her shallow grave with such force that she partially gave birth to the baby boy she was carrying.
Watts told Cherlyn: "She landed face down, I remember being so angry with her that I was not going to change how she landed."
He then smothered his youngest daughter with the blanket she was carrying before dropping her into a oil tank.
Watts told the author: "I couldn't believe how easily it was to just let her drop through the hole and let her go. I heard the splash as she hit the oil."
He then turned his attention to four-year-old Bella, who begged her father for her life.
Watts said: "Little quiet Bella had a will to live. Out of all three, Bella is the only one that put up a fight.
"I will hear her soft little voice for the rest of my life, saying, 'Daddy, NO!!! She knew what I was doing to her. She may not have understood death, but she knew I was killing her."