BRITAIN is set to be hit by heavy snowfall again tonight after millions awoke to their homes and neighbourhoods blanketed in the white stuff on Sunday morning.
UK weather: Cold and icy conditions forecast by Met Office
The Met Office has issued an amber warning for snow, effective until 8pm on Sunday, covering Stoke-on-Trent, Derby and Nottingham. Meteorologists warned of possible disruption to rail and air travel. Temperatures are set to drop as low as -10C in the Midlands tonight, according to NetWeather TV. They said: "We may see -10C or so in parts of the Midlands, with much of the country well below freezing. That's going to mean plenty of ice around on pavements and roads."
Trending
The Met Office said: “There is a good chance that some rural communities could become cut off. “Power cuts are likely, and other services, such as mobile phone coverage, may be affected.” They said drivers and vehicles could “become stranded” due to the heavy snowfall. Amber warnings are the second highest in the Met Office's four-tier system.
SNOW: Met Office issues Amber warning
Londoners yell with excitement as they sled down Parliament Hill in north London
The warning means "there is an increased likelihood of impacts from severe weather" while there is also a "possibility of travel delays, road and rail closures, power cuts and the potential risk to life and property." Experts at NetWeather TV said temperatures will plummet as low as -6C later on Sunday. The amber alert comes on the back of three yellow warnings for snow and ice in the Midlands, Wales and the south of England. A warning covering London, the Home Counties and the south east will expire at midnight tonight. READ MORE: UK floods video: Residents homeless as Eustice warns of more to come
SUBSCRIBE Invalid email We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you've consented to and to improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and 3rd parties based on our understanding. You can unsubscribe at any time. Read our Privacy Policy
The Met Office issued an amber snow warning
Children and their parents enjoying the snow at Hampstead Heath
Weather experts at WXCharts have warned of more snow on the way
People enjoying the snow in north London
Just over four inches (11cm) of snow is forecast to fall on the region by 3am on Monday, according to a map produced by WXcharts.
Weather experts at NetWeather TV predicted freezing conditions late on Monday. They said: “After the cold start, temperatures on Monday will struggle to get above freezing, but they'll make it in most parts of the country, particularly as the sun will be out. “That'll mean the lying snow will be starting to melt before freezing again into the evening, which will add to the ice hazard.
UK snow in numbers
Londoners playing in the heavy snowfall
“Inland, most places will stay dry, but there'll be further wintry showers in the north and west with northern Scotland, in particular, seeing a good number as low pressure moves east through the North Sea, not too far away. “Another cold, frosty and icy night follows, but temperatures will be beginning to lift from the southwest later in the night as cloud, and some outbreaks of rain (with hill snow) start to move in. “The wet weather will then move northeast during the day on Tuesday."
A police van drives through crowds at Parliament Hill in north London