ANNA Shay was a star of the hit series Bling Empire.On Monday, June 5, 2023, news broke that the 62-year-old celebrity died.Who was Anna Shay?Anna Sha
mass wealth Who was Anna Shay and what was her cause of death?
ANNA Shay was a star of the hit series Bling Empire.
On Monday, June 5, 2023, news broke that the 62-year-old celebrity died.
2 Anna Shay was a star of the Netflix hit series, Bling Empire Credit: Instagram
Who was Anna Shay?
Anna Shay was one of the stars of Netflix's hit reality show, Bling Empire, which has been compared to Crazy Rich Asians.
She was the daughter of billionaires Edward and Ai-San Shay.
Edward was from the South Side of Chicago, while Ai-San was Japanese with a Russian background.
What was Anna Shay's cause of death?
On Monday, June 5, 2023, it was announced Anna Shay passed away after suffering from a stroke.
People confirmed the death of the Bling Empire star.
Shay's family released a statement, saying: “It saddens our hearts to announce that Anna Shay, a loving mother, grandmother, charismatic star, and our brightest ray of sunshine, has passed away at the early age of 62 from a stroke.
"Anna taught us many life lessons on how not to take life too seriously and to enjoy the finer things."
The statement closed: "Her impact on our lives will be forever missed but never forgotten."
2 Anna Shay passed away from a stroke aged 62 Credit: Instagram
Was Anna Shay married?
While starring in Bling Empire, Anna Shay revealed that she had been married and divorced four times over.
The identities of her ex-husbands haven't been disclosed.
What is Bling Empire?
Bling Empire is an American reality show exclusive to Netflix.
The show first premiered in 2021, with its second season hitting screens in January 2023.
Bling Empire's official show synopsis reads: "While their days and nights are filled with fabulous parties and expensive shopping sprees, don’t let the glitz and glamour fool you.
"Between running multi-billion dollar businesses and traveling the world, these friends are as good at keeping secrets as they are at spilling them. And there is certainly no shortage of secrets."