It looks like the most recent trilogy of Tomb Raider games is due for a release as one big collection, as per a new listing on the Microsoft Store.
It looks like the most recent trilogy of Tomb Raider games is due for a release as one big collection if a new listing on the Microsoft Store is anything to go by.
Tomb Raider: Definitive Survivor Trilogy has appeared on the Microsoft Store and promises a release date of March 18. The Trilogy includes Tomb Raider, Rise of the Tomb Raider and Shadow of the Tomb Raider and also contains all the DLC that's been released for the Crystal Dynamics and Eidos Montreal games that's been launched since 2013 (cheers, Resetera).
"Tomb Raider: Definitive Survivor Trilogy is the complete edition of the award-winning Tomb Raider origin games," says the shop listing. "This collection contains all the definitive edition content from each critically acclaimed prequel title—Tomb Raider: Definitive Edition, Rise of the Tomb Raider: 20 Year Celebration, and Shadow of the Tomb Raider: Definitive Edition."
It appears that there are no given next-gen upgrades or any new content in this compilation.
"Follow Lara on her formative journey across the world, starting in Tomb Raider trapped on the shrouded island of Yamatai off the coast of Japan, to the harsh Siberian tundra hiding an immortal secret in Rise of the Tomb Raider, and finally to the mountainous landscape of Peru to uncover a cataclysmic power in Shadow of the Tomb Raider. With all the definitive edition content from each game, this Trilogy promises dozens of hours of breathtaking exploration, challenging puzzle-solving, and survival combat with Lara as she becomes the Tomb Raider she was destined to become."
Whether the game will come to other consoles remains to be seen, but so far the games in this trilogy have launched on PS4, Xbox One and PC.
It's worth noting that this Trilogy is likely being released in order to honor the series' 25th anniversary. We've already seen Square Enix set up a special website to celebrate the quarter-century landmark, and tease a new game in the series that will 'unify the classic and modern timelines'.
You can also look forward to Legendary’s animated series coming to Netflix soon. It follows after the Tomb Raider trilogy, which means it takes place after the events of Crystal Dynamics’ Tomb Raider, Rise of the Tomb Raider, and Shadow of the Tomb Raider.