The 2021 Acura TLX Type S finally has a debut date.
TLX Make Acura Segment Sedan
Last year, Acura presented the stunning Type S Concept at Pebble Beach. Not only did it preview the next-generation Acura TLX sports sedan but also the return of the automaker's Type S performance series for the first time since the 2008 Acura TL Type S. We've been eagerly anticipating the production version's arrival ever since, and the wait is nearly over.
After the sedan's planned debut at the 2020 New York Auto Show in April was delayed, Acura has announced the new TLX will break cover on May 28 in a short film hosted on the automaker's website.
Close
Just as we hoped, the new TLX will be inspired by the stunning Type S concept. Teased for the first time in a shadowy image of the car's rear, the 2021 Acura TLX will retain the concept's striking styling and sporty proportions. The teaser photo shows off the more aggressive Type S version featuring a wider rear track, muscular curves, a prominent rear diffuser, and a signature Type S quad exhaust system.
The production model should also retain the concept's sloping roofline and long hood. Overall, this is going to be a very dynamic-looking sedan that will stand out from its competitors. Under the hood, the 2021 Acura TLX will be powered by a 2.0-liter turbocharged four-cylinder engine. In the Acura RDX, this unit produces 272 hp,
Close
This would be a massive power increase over Acura's 2.4-liter four-cylinder engine that produces 206 hp in the base version of the current Acura TLX. Potentially, it could have more power as Honda has already extracted 306 hp from the same unit in the Civic Type R. The more powerful Type S version, on the other hand, will be the first model to pack Acura's new 3.0-liter V6 turbo engine. Technical details are being kept under wraps for now, but reports claim the new V6 will have over 350 hp.
If these claims are true, the 2021 Acura TLX Type S will be a formidable rival to its German competitors such as the Mercedes-AMG C43, BMW M340i, and Audi S4. All will be revealed next week, so stay tuned.