Avatar has once again become the all-time top-grossing film after de-seating Avengers Endgame. The epic science fiction film takes the throne as it
Avatar once again becomes the all time top-grossing film
Avatar has once again become the all-time top-grossing film after de-seating Avengers Endgame.
The epic science fiction film takes the throne as it returns to Chinese cinemas this weekend.
As being reported, Avatar was re-released throughout China this weekend that totaled the film’s gross of $3.5 million on Friday.
The weekend’s incomes took Avatar’s complete earnings to $2.7926 billion.
Oel ngati kameie, China! We're excited to bring Avatar back to your big screens this weekend. pic.twitter.com/aKxje8SRft — James Cameron (@JimCameron) March 11, 2021
Directed and produced by James Cameron, the 2009 release has remained the highest-grossing movie worldwide for nearly ten years.
However, it was dethroned after the release of Avengers Endgame that premiered in 2019.
When it was first launched in 2010 in China, The flick grossed $206 million. while the latest re-release has taken the Chinese tally to $33.2 million to Avatar’s field workplace good points.
However, its title was snatched by Avengers Endgame that premiered in 2019.
While the production house enjoys the fresh earings from the old film, Avatar’s two sequels are gearing up for release soon.
The production team celebrated the wrapping up live-action photography of Avatar 2 last year in January. while Avatar 3 is reported to be also almost done.
It’s a long wait for fans as the four sequels are in various stages of production. As being reported Avatar 2 is slated to hit the cinemas in December 2022.
If things go according to the original plans, Avatar 3 will hit theaters on December 20, 2024, Avatar 4 on December 18, 2026, and Avatar 5 while Avatar 5 will conclude the franchise on December 22, 2028.
Avatar 2 will see the return of star cast Sam Worthington, Zoe Saldana, Giovanni Ribisi, Stephen Lang, Joel David Moore, Dileep Rao, CCH Pounder, and Matt Gerald.
While the new cast members include Kate Winslet, Cliff Curtis, Edie Falco, Brendan Cowell, Michelle Yeoh, Jemaine Clement, Oona Chaplin, David Thewlis, Vin Diesel, and CJ Jones. Young actors Jamie Flatters, Britain Dalton, and Trinity Bliss will fill the roles of Jake and Neytiri’s children for the movies.