Search and rescue teams are continuing to search for survivors trapped when buildings collapsed during Friday’s earthquake in which 83 people died and more than 1,000 were injured.
A three-year-old child was rescued early on Monday morning in the Turkish city of Izmir after being trapped for 65 hours when a 6.9-magnitude earthquake shook the country’s Aegean Sea coast.
Search and rescue missions are still underway in the rubble of eight collapsed buildings in Izmir in an attempt to rescue anyone who is still trapped.
A total of 83 people died and two more lost their lives on the nearby Greek island of Samos.
The Turkish authorities mounted a swift response after the quake hit Izmir, a port city with 4.3 million residents in western Turkey which is the Turkish Aegean region’s main economic and cultural centre.
Army units, fire crews from other cities, miners, civil defence emergency groups and public search and rescue missions from across the country were deployed to the city just within hours.
“We did not have any problems in swiftly sending help to Izmir. The governor, the mayor and ministers are working together,” Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said on Sunday during a visit to Izmir.
Erdogan also said that new houses will be built for those who lost their houses and that an emergency fund of 24 million Turkish lira (2.52 million euros) has been transferred to Izmir.
Neighbouring Greece, Israel, France and Azerbaijan were the first countries to offer help and President Erdogan thanked 66 countries who offered assistance and sent supportive messages.
Twenty buildings collapsed in the earthquake and 26 more were seriously damaged. Hundreds of other buildings have minor damages according to initial assessments.
Since the earthquake, residents of Izmir have been sleeping in thousands of tents set up by Turkey’s Disaster and Emergency Management Presidency and the army amid a series of aftershocks. Some locals have also been sleeping in parks and on beaches.
According the Disaster and Emergency Management Presidency, more than 1,100 aftershocks have shook the region, 43 of which were bigger than 4 magnitude.
Turkey’s Aegean coast and Izmir in particular are seismically very active areas and earthquakes have hit the region many times.