THE LOVE Island star has been busy since she left the villa.
But who is the social media regular - who was recently involved in an altercation in a London park - and how do you find her on Instagram?
6 Anna Vakili found fame on Love Island Credit: Instagram
Who is Love Islander Anna Vakili?
Anna Vakili, 29, is from London, and grew up in a family with a Middle Eastern background.
She worked as a pharmacist before joining the ITV2 reality TV dating show for its 2019 series.
Before heading into the villa, the star described herself as kind, honest and emotional.
However, she also added: "I’m difficult to handle, I’m a drama queen and I overreact."
6 The reality TV star has more than a million followers on Instagram Credit: Instagram
Anna keeps her fans updated on her popular Instagram account @annavakili_, where she currently has a following of more than 1.2m.
In early 2019, before she appeared on Love Island, she saw her social media profile increase after she was filmed partying in Qatar with her sister Mandi Vakili and two famous Iranian footballers.
Before that, Anna also met fellow former Love Island contestant Kem Cetinay during a night out in Dubai in November 2018.
The star recalled: "He was with his really hot cousin and I was chatting to him and I slipped and fell straight down in front of them."
6 She has been described as "the British Kim Kardashian" Credit: Instagram
6 She is close to sister Mandi Credit: Getty Images - Getty
Is Anna still with Jordan?
Anna split up with co-star Jordan Hames before exiting the villa.
They had only been girlfriend and boyfriend for two days before he "cheated" on her by chatting up page 3 model India Reynolds.
Since leaving the show, Anna has called his behaviour as "the worst in the show's history".
Speaking to The Sun, the star insisted: "I feel he wasn't genuine about liking me or caring about me."
She added: "We didn't have sex and I am so glad. Imagine if I had - I would have been even more upset."
6 Anna enjoyed a brief romance with co-star Jordan Hames Credit: Rex Features
What happened to Anna Vakili on Love Island?
Anna was the fourth girl to enter the villa and didn't step forward for any of the boys. This meant by default she was coupled up with Sherif Lanre. At first, she wasn't keen on him, but towards the end of the first episode she looked like she was changing her mind.
It was not long before Anna wasn't happy in her couple, especially as she had complained Sherif didn't talk to her.
Seeing an opportunity, Anton Danyluk started grafting Anna in the hope he could couple up with her.
Sherif and Anna have a heart-to-heart about their situation as a couple, and Sherif stresses that he doesn't want to lose her to another guy in the villa because he really likes her.
Anna and Sherif share a romantic breakfast in the morning before sharing a steamy kiss after the semi-pro rugby player showered the pharmacist with compliments.
Then on Monday, June 11, 2019, it was announced Sherif had been kicked out of Love Island, leaving Anna with no love interest in the villa.
Anna is less than impressed when Anton tries to turn his attention back to her now Anna is single again. The gym owner claims she is beautiful from the inside-out and Anna doesn't feel like it is a compliment.
In episode 11, Anna tried to reassure Lucie Donlan the girls only want to spend more time with her after the surfer found out Amy Hart and the other female Islanders have been saying she doesn't hang around with them that much.
Anna was left solo after none of the boys picked her in episode 12's recoupling - including her safe bet, pal Anton, who chose new girl Elma Pazar - however just as it looked like she was going to be dumped from the villa she got a text telling her and Maura Higgins they were heading on dates with new boys Tom Walker and Jordan.
Jordan and Anna took things a step further and enjoyed their first kiss.
Anna was voted best kisser by the boys in the villa kissing competition.
After Jordan chose to couple up with Anna, the pair clashed over her reaction to Danny dumping Yewande from the villa. Anna didn't appreciate being called "childish" and "pathetic" but Jordan promised to make it up to her.
Anna really put her foot in it when she spilled Tom's secret about Maura to the Irish grid girl after Jordan asked her not to tell anyone the male model did not think Maura "ticked all his boxes".
At CCasa Amor, Anna really got into the game of Sexy Charades, with the raven-haired beauty locking lips with Ovie Soko in episode 24.
The pharmacist shared a bed with basketball player Ovie and they were jokingly berated by Maura Higgins for kissing loudly in the communal room in episode 25.
Anna picked Ovie in the latest recoupling, rendering Jordan single, however, she said she had no regrets about her decision.
A day after the recoupling, Anna admitted she still has feelings for Jordan, despite choosing Ovie over him.
The Kim Kardashian lookalike continued to flirt with Jordan in episode 28, however, their time alone together did not go unnoticed with Ovie.
She then went on a date with Jordan and admitted she still likes him.
After uhming and ahing, Anna decided her heart was really with Jordan and the pair shared a smooch on the balcony after Ovie got frustrated with the love triangle and told Jordan 'You can have her.'
Anna is now back with Jordan and also escaped the next elimination.
In episode 33, Anna tried to encourage new boy Chris Taylor to give love a chance with Amber Gill after she was dumped by Michael Griffiths.
Anna and Jordan were in the bottom two and faced elimination in episode 36 after the public voted for their favourite couples.
Anna and her fellow cast member unanimously decided to send Joanna Chimonides home, instead of Michael, who was at risk of being kicked off the show.
Anna and Jordan then spent their first night alone in the hideaway, with viewers believing they had sex.
She recoupled with Jordan in episode 41.
In episode 42 Jordan solidified their relationship by asking Anna to be his girlfriend.
Jordan and Anna were left confused and upset that they were in the bottom three AGAIN. But more shockingly Jordan admitted his head had been turned by India just one day after asking her to be his girlfriend!
Anna gave Jordan a peace of her mind in episode 44 when the model tried to put the moves on India Reynolds, despite making her his girlfriend two days earlier.
Anna was booted off the show in episode 45. Her elimination came just hours after she ended her relationship with Jordan.
6 Anna pictured at her Pharmacy MA graduation in 2015 Credit: Instagram
What did Anna Vakili look before surgery?
Anna was famed in the villa for her curves and plump pout - and has been described as "the British Kim Kardashian".
However, in 2015 at the graduation ceremony for her Pharmacy MA she sported a different look.
A former flame of the star has claimed that she has undergone surgery to change her appearance.
Speaking to the Mirror Online, he said: "She's always suffered from a lack of confidence.
"She went for a boob job in January 2016 but even when we first met she'd had lip fillers.
"It looks like she had more surgery in the last couple of years because she definitely didn't have that bum when we were seeing each other."
In an Instagram post from July 2015, Anna criticised trolls who slated women for getting surgery.
She shared a quote, which read: "Gentle reminder: you can uplift yourself without having to bring others down.
"You can embrace your curves without having to insult skinny girls.
"You can appreciate your natural beauty without having to shame girls who wear a lot of makeup or have gotten plastic surgery."