Starting Monday, March 8 South Carolinians in Phase 1b can begin receiving the COVID-19 vaccine. Essentially, the state is moving to what was previously known as Phase 1C with some exceptions. The majority of the state will now be eligible for vaccinations. This will include: Anyone aged 55 and up. People with increased risk for severe COVID-19 disease. People aged 16-64 with one or more of the following high-risk medical conditions:
Starting Monday, March 8 South Carolinians in Phase 1b can begin receiving the COVID-19 vaccine.
Essentially, the state is moving to what was previously known as Phase 1C with some exceptions. The majority of the state will now be eligible for vaccinations.
This will include:
Anyone aged 55 and up
People with increased risk for severe COVID-19 disease
People aged 16-64 with one or more of the following high-risk medical conditions:
Cancer (current, not a history of cancer), chronic kidney disease (any stage), chronic lung disease, diabetes (Type 1 and Type 2), Down syndrome, heart disease (congestive heart disease, coronary artery disease, cardiomyopathy, pulmonary hypertension), HIV/AIDS, solid organ transplant, obesity (BMI <>>30), pregnancy, sickle cell disease.
People who have a developmental or other severe high-risk disability that makes developing severe life-threatening illness or death from COVID-19 infection more likely
Frontline workers with increased occupational risk
Frontline workers with increased occupational risk are people who:
Must be in-person at their place of work, and perform a job that puts them at increased risk of exposure due to their frequent, close (less than 6 feet) and ongoing (more than 15 minutes) contact with others in the work environment
Teachers will also be included in Phase 1B. The move comes exactly a week after lawmakers backed off moving teachers to Phase 1A when DHEC said they wouldn't get full protection until the school year ended.
RELATED:
Examples of frontline workers include, but are not limited to, school staff and daycare workers, manufacturing workers, grocery store workers, law enforcement officers, etc.
Individuals at increased risk in settings where people are living and working in close contact
Residents and workers in group home settings for the mentally or physically disabled or those with behavioral or substance abuse conditions
Workers and residents in homeless shelters
Workers and residents in community training homes
State and local correctional facility staff with direct inmate contact
Correctional and immigration detention facility inmates
Migrant farmworkers living in shared housing or reliant on shared transportation
All workers in healthcare and community health settings who have routine, direct patient contact and were not vaccinated in Phase 1
Gov. Henry McMaster also said more than 1 million have been vaccinated so far, though we think he meant to say more than 1 million shots have been given. The CDC's website, which has typically been the most up-to-date source, says approximately 750,000 people have been vaccinated so far.
RELATED:
A will be administering the Johnson & Johnson vaccine starting Monday.
The pharmacy located at 1610 Church St Ste C, Conway, SC 29526, said that they will have their first appointments starting at 9 a.m.
Online appointments can be made by or you can call DHEC’s COVID-19 Vaccine Information Line at 1-866-365-8110 for help.