CLEVELAND, Ohio -- The only entity welcoming Dr. Amy Acton’s surprise resignation Thursday should be the coronavirus, not Republicans in Ohio’s general assembly who tried to make her job even tougher. Giving Dr. Acton’s resignation a hi-five is a low-five.
The Buckeye state’s Republican Governor Mike DeWine had bucked the state’s Republican leaders in regretting Dr. Acton’s resignation as the state’s Health Director and heaping hi praise on her work in the fight against the coronavirus.
“It’s true not all heroes wear capes. Some of them do, in fact, wear a white coat, and this particular hero’s white coat is embossed with the name Dr. Amy Acton.”
That white coat was also weathered by a grueling work routine and smears from attacks by Ohio Republican officials, protests in front of her home and lawsuits against Ohio Covid restrictions ordered by Dr. Acton and Governor DeWine.
Those attacks were noted in international news headlines on Dr. Acton’s resignation.
“Dr Amy Acton resigns amid backlash against Ohio’s lockdown after leading coronavirus fight.” topped the report in Scotland’s “The Guardian”
“Amy Acton, Ohio’s embattled health director, resigns amid COVID-19 crisis” headlined the ABC News story.
Republican lawmakers attempts to restrict Dr Acton’s authority with new legislation failed and were not in sync with public opinion on Dr Acton’s job performance. Polls found that 84% of Ohio voters trusted the information she provided.
In the press briefing announcing her resignation Dr Acton did not state any specific reason for her decision.
She noted the grueling work routine and that Ohio had moved into a new reopening phase that would allow her to transition into a role as Governor DeWine’s chief medical adviser. But Dr Action mainly focused on praising the work of Governor DeWine and all those working with both of them to battle back the coronavirus.
Dr Acton also deserves high praise for helping preventing Ohio from becoming like New York, Washington and so many states now experiencing a coronavirus surge.
A bobble head had been modeled in Dr. Amy Acton’s likeness, but it turns out those who fought against her were the true bobble heads.