Katie Price's son Harvey Price, 18, has been rushed to hospital for the second time in two weeks after he was found to be struggling to breathe, the model's representative confirmed
The video will auto-play soon 8 Cancel
We have more newsletters
Thank you for subscribing!
Something went wrong, please try again later.
Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.
Get the best celeb gossip with the Daily Star Showbiz newsletter
We have more newsletters
Thank you for subscribing!
Thank you for subscribing!
Something went wrong, please try again later.
Get the best celeb gossip with the Daily Star Showbiz newsletter
Katie Price's son Harvey Price has been rushed to hospital with breathing difficulties.
A rep for the glamour model confirmed that the 18-year-old was taken for professional medical help.
They added that Katie is terrified and that Harvey's condition is "very dangerous".
Harvey, who is the son of footballer Dwight Yorke, suffers from rare genetic disorder Prader-Willi Syndrome.
The rep added to The Sun: "He has a temperature of 42 degrees and is struggling to breathe.
"One of his conditions is adrenal failure that could cause his organs to fail and is very dangerous."
(Image: Internet Unknown)
Less than two weeks ago Harvey was taken to hospital after complaining he was having trouble breathing.
An ambulance was called during the party Katie had organised for her daughter Princess' 13th birthday.
A rep at the time said: "Harvey has been taken to a local hospital for tests – he wasn't feeling well yesterday and has today presented symptoms that require urgent medical attention.
"Katie recognised the signs and knew when to call an ambulance. He's expected to be discharged later today."
(Image: katieprice/Instagram)
Katie later confirmed on her YouTube that her son was checked over by medics and taken to hospital in an ambulance as a precaution due to his conditions.
The doting mum confirmed that he was now back at home and felt better.
Speaking in the clip, Katie said: "He kept complaining of chest pains. I said 'how does it feel?' and he said 'like needles'.
"Straight away, because of his complex needs, do I call the doctor or do I call the ambulance?
(Image: instagram)
"I don’t like it when people waste ambulances’ time.
"He’s at high risk because of coronavirus, he’s high risk because of his obesity and the steroids he’s on and his medical condition so I did call 999."
Katie added: "They did tests and all of that and they think he’s got a chest infection coming."
A rep for Katie Price has been contacted by Daily Star Online for comment.