She has previously apologised for the tweets in 2019, for the tweets in 2019, but called them "deeply insensitive” rather than “racist.”
Condé Nast recently announced former political reporter, Alexi McCammond, would lead the digital publication, known for mixing progressive political coverage with fashion and celebrity journalism, as a replacement for former editor, Lindsay Peoples Wagner.
Soon after, anti-Asian tweets she wrote in 2011 surfaced. Among one of them which was about a bad mark she got for a college assignment read, “thanks a lot stupid asian T.A. you’re great.”
Another tweet read, “now googling how to not wake up with swollen, asian eyes…”
The anti-Asian statements, which date back to 2011 and Alexi has previously apologised for the tweets in 2019, but called them “deeply insensitive” rather than “racist.”
READ MORE| Sephora's racial bias report acknowledges profiling truths we can relate to as black South Africans
A note from teen vogue’s staff pic.twitter.com/oyfhN0mlk8 — Allegra Kirkland (@allegrakirkland) March 8, 2021
A group of more than twenty Teen Vogue staff members wrote a letter to their magazine group condemning their new editor's racist and homophobic tweets. They also posted a statement on social media.
READ MORE| Meghan Markle’s story triggered me: My in-laws tried to bleach my child's skin
Alexi apologised sincerely for the posts she wrote as a 17-year-old in a note sent to staff. However, it wasn't enough for Olivia Munn because Alexi didn't use the word racist in her reply.
Munn then called her out, saying that it's important for people to hear her say that these were racist comments and there’s nothing excusable about it.
Alexi has now responded on her Instagram, directly acknowledging her past racist and homophobic tweets and apologised profusely.
Teen Vogue has since released a statement regarding the controversy on Instagram.
“We respect and value our diverse community of Teen Vogue readers. We’re so proud of the brand we’ve built and we’re confident that Teen Vogue will continue to be a leader uplifting all BIPOC and marginalized communities and telling their stories to the world,” The statement reads.
“As a team, we’ve had frank, thoughtful, and real conversations over the last days about inclusivity and the way forward.” The statement is signed from the “Teen Vogue staff & EIC Alexi McCammond.”
Do you have a story to share with us? Tell us about it here.
Follow us on social media: Facebook, Twitter, Instagram
Sign up to W24's newsletters so you don't miss out on any of our stories and giveaways.