Former glamour model Katie Price took to Instagram to drop a huge hint that she's expecting her sixth child - her first with boyfriend Carl Woods
Something went wrong, please try again later.
Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.
Sign up to the Hull Live newsletter for daily updates and breaking news
Something went wrong, please try again later.
Sign up to the Hull Live newsletter for daily updates and breaking news
Katie Price has teased fans that she is pregnant with her sixth child.
The former glamour model, 42, dropped a huge hint on her Instagram page by sharing a pair of snaps of herself cradling her belly.
She posted: "Happy and healthy it’s the best feeling ever I thank @carljwoods for being part of me x"
"My dolly," former Love Island star Carl commented beneath her post doing nothing to dampen the rumours.
Many people rushed to offer the star their congratulations, although it's not confirmed that she is expecting another child, according to the Mirror.
To sign up for the Hull Live newsletter, click here.
(Image: Instagram)
Carl, 31, also shared one of the snaps on his Instagram story, adding hearts above it but no caption.
Her post came on the same evening she shared snaps of the takeaway from Essex restaurant Sheesh she was tucking into during a cosy night in with her beau.
She excitedly talked about the food they'd picked up, but didn't mention anything about a pregnancy in her Instagram videos.
It comes after the mum-of-five spoke openly about hoping to have more babies.
But she had said that she feared her past C-sections could prevent her from having any more children.
Katie, who is already mum to Harvey, 18, Junior, 15, Princess, 13, Jett, seven, and Bunny, six, has had four Caesarean section operations.
Junior and Princess, who she shares with ex-husband Peter Andre, were born by C-section, and Jett and Bunny, whose dad is her ex-husband Kieran Hayler, were born by emergency C-section.
Looking back on Jett's birth, Katie recently told The Sun : "This doctor only gave me the epidural [not the anaesthetic].
"I could tell the doctor was close to making the first incision but I wasn't numb yet.
"But the first incision was made and I could feel the pressure of it."
As multiple C-sections can increase the risk of complications with future ones, she expressed fear that she might struggle to have the four more kids she was hoping to welcome with Carl.
(Image: ITV)
Her post also comes not long after her ex Kieran announced he was expecting his first child with fiancée Michelle Penticost.
Kieran admitted that he hadn't told Katie about his baby news before it was released in the press.
He told New! magazine : "Yeah. At the end of the day, we're living different lives now. I think she's trying for a baby because I've seen pictures of her boyfriend Carl with a pregnancy test.
"I don't know what's going on in her life, she doesn't know what's going on in my life. All we need to speak about is the kids."