Oprah Winfrey led a passionate conversation Tuesday night In "OWN Spotlight: Where Do We Go From Here?,” the first of a two-night town hall addressing issues raised by the killing of George Floyd, a black man who died May 25 after a white Minneapolis police officer pressed a knee to Floyd’s neck for nearly nine minutes. Floyd’s death has sparked nationwide protests against racism and police brutality inflicted on African Americans. Winfrey’s special continues Wednesday, June 10, on OWN and will be simulcast across channels that fall under the Discovery umbrella.
• You can watch “OWN Spotlight: Where Do We Go From Here?” for free with fuboTV (free trial).
In the town hall, Winfrey speaks with director Ava DuVernay (“When They See Us); politician Stacey Abrams; Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms; Color of Change founder Rashad Robinson; National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) national board member Rev. Dr. William J. Barber II; professor and author Jennifer Eberhardt; author Ibram X. Kendi; journalist Charles M. Blow; journalist and Pulitzer prize-winning founder of The 1619 Project, Nikole Hannah-Jones (who, earlier in her career, was a reporter for The Oregonian/OregonLive); and actor David Oyelowo (”Selma"), who directed his first feature film, “The Water Man,” last year in Oregon. Winfrey is one of the executive producers of the film.
In the first night, Winfrey’s guests talked about subjects including their own emotional reactions, including the “righteous rage” the Rev. Dr. William J. Barber II mentioned. Others discussed the weariness they feel about having to go through this pain again.
“There’s a sense that white Americans will tolerate so much pain, so much suffering,” Nikole Hannah-Jones said, “until something so egregiously horrifying occurs, they can no longer be in denial” about how black Americans have been denied their civil rights, and full citizenship.
“And I think we’re just tired, as black people, of having to prove our humanity only when the most inhumane things happen to us,” Hannah-Jones said.
Winfrey said In a statement that she decided to do the town hall because “I’ve been having private conversations with friends and thought leaders about what’s next and where we go from here.”
The “OWN Spotlight” specials on Winfrey’s OWN network are presentations that feature conversations about issues that are relevant to contemporary black women.
What: “OWN Spotlight: Where Do We Go From Here?” Part 2
When: Wednesday, June 10 at 9 p.m.
TV Channels: The special will air on OWN, and also be simulcast across all of Discovery’s networks, including Discovery, HGTV, ID, Food Network, TLC, Animal Planet, and more.
Watch live stream online: You can watch the show live for FREE with fuboTV (free trial), or you can watch it live at a discount with Sling TV (promotional offer). The special will also stream on as OWN’s YouTube, Facebook and Instagram pages.
Channel finder, more ways to watch: Verizon Fios, AT&T U-verse, Comcast Xfinity, Spectrum/Charter, Optimum/Altice, DIRECTV and Dish.
More of our coverage:
-- Kristi Turnquist
kturnquist@oregonian.com 503-221-8227 @Kristiturnquist
Subscribe to Oregonian/OregonLive newsletters and podcasts for the latest news and top stories.