Ahead of this weekend's Premier League action, Sportsmail will be providing you with all you need to know about every fixture, with team news, provisional squads, betting odds and Opta stats. Here is all the information you need for West Brom's home clash with QPR... West Bromwich Albion vs Queens Park Rangers (The Hawthorns) Team news. West Brom. West Brom's Craig Dawson is suspended for the visit of QPR after he was awarded the red card wrongly given to Gareth McAuley against Manchester City. Defender McAuley was dismissed by referee Neil Swarbrick for a foul on Wilfried Bony which Dawson committed and the red card was switched to Dawson after a review. Craig Dawson (right) will serve a suspension for his challenge on Wilfried Bony following retrospective action. Ben Foster has been ruled out for six months with damaged crucial knee ligaments which the England keeper suffered in the Baggies' last home game against Stoke while Callum McManaman is also out with a foot injury. Provisional squad: Myhill, Rose, Gamboa, Pocognoli, Wisdom, Lescott, Olsson, McAuley, Baird, Brunt, Morrison, Fletcher, Yacob, Gardner, Mulumbu, Sessegnon, Berahino, Anichebe, Ideye. QPR. QPR manager Chris Ramsey has no fresh injury concerns for Saturday's visit to fellow Barclays Premier League strugglers West Brom. On-loan striker Mauro Zarate has returned to parent club West Ham to regain fitness while Richard Dunne and Leroy Fer are both out with knee injuries. Queens Park Rangers youngster Darnell Furlong is likely to miss out with a calf injury. Darnell Furlong is also likely to miss the game with a calf problem and Alejandro Faurlin is a long-term absentee with a cruciate ligament injury. Provisional squad: Green, Caulker, Onuoha, Yun, Wright-Phillips, Henry, Sandro, Phillips, Taarabt, Austin, Hill, McCarthy, Kranjcar, Hoilett, Vargas, Zamora, Grego-Cox. Kick-off: Saturday, 3pm. Odds (subject to change):. West Brom 8/11. Draw 23/10. QPR 9/2. Referee: Lee Probert. Managers: Tony Pulis (West Brom), Chris Ramsey (QPR) Head-to-head league record: West Brom wins 16, draws 9, QPR wins 12. Key match stats (supplied by Opta) West Brom have kept six clean sheets in seven games in all competitions at the Hawthorns under Tony Pulis. Queens Park Rangers have lost 17 of their last 19 Premier League away matches (W1 D1 L17). Only two teams in Premier League history have ever had fewer points away from home after 14 away matches than QPR (3) have currently (Sunderland 2 in 2007-08 and Burnley 1 in 2009-10). The Baggies have won three and lost just one of the five Premier League meetings with Rangers. QPR have conceded the first goal in 23 of their 30 Premier League games this season; more often than any other team. Charlie Austin scored a hat-trick for QPR in a 3-2 win over West Brom earlier this season at Loftus Road. Rob Green has made more errors leading to opposition goals than any other Premier League player this season (5). Joleon Lescott has given away three penalties in the Premier League this season; more than any other player. 15 of Saido Berahino’s 18 competitive goals for WBA this season have come at the Hawthorns (83 per cent). Harry Kane (19) is the only English player to have scored more Premier League goals this season than Charlie Austin (15) and Saido Berahino (12). Since Chris Ramsey took the reins at QPR, they have found the net in six of their seven Premier League games.
