Tiger Woods is in it to win it — but it would be a ‘disaster for everyone’ if he limps out of the Masters this week. That is the view of Colin Montgomerie after Woods confirmed his return to competitive golf for the first time since early February, when he withdrew with a back injury in the first round of the Farmers Insurance Open. Having plummeted to 104 in the world rankings and with no kind of competitive action under his belt, beyond the rounds he has amassed in practice in Florida and at Augusta during the past few days, his form is a mystery. Former world No 1 Tiger Woods confirmed earlier this week that he will play at the Masters. Woods has dropped out of the world's top 100 for the first time in almost 19 years. Watch live coverage of all four days of The Masters only on Sky Sports (from 7pm) and from Friday on BBC2 (7pm). But Montgomerie, who will be at the Masters in Augusta commentating for Sky Sports, the only place to watch all four days live, said: ‘He hasn’t entered to make up the numbers, I can guarantee that. Imagine Tiger coming here to the Masters and scoring 69 or 68 in the first day? Suddenly the whole place is alive. It’s a buzz. ‘If Rory McIlroy starts with a 69, 68, so does Tiger, marvellous. ‘It would be fantastic, it would be a buzz around the place, some sort of electricity that we have missed without him. ‘Whether he can win again, who knows? Hey, never mind a major, can he win another event ever again? But let’s hope that it’s not one of these 75, 76, I’ve hurt my back, and goes home. That would be a disaster for everybody.’ Woods has won the Masters on four separate occasions with his last win coming in 2005. Colin Montgomerie has said it would be fantastic to see a fully fit Woods go up against Rory McIlroy. McIlroy can match Woods in winning the grand slam if he wins the Masters. But 51-year-old Montgomerie believes the man from Northern Ireland will never hold the same dominance over golf that Woods achieved in his prime in 2000. He said: ‘I don’t think we’ll ever see the dominance that Tiger had in that year,’ he said. ‘The golf that was played and the way that it was done, in winning majors by eight and 15 shots, it was just incredible stuff. ‘At this moment in time, the competition is now so severe that any lapse at all, and there is someone willing to take up that baton. ‘And that wasn’t the case with Tiger. Tiger had this dominance that Rory hasn’t got yet.’
