Liverpool goalkeeper Simon Mignolet has revealed how his mental strength helped him recover after being dropped last December. Mignolet was dropped 'indefinitely' by manager Brendan Rodgers in December after a poor run of form but quickly returned after Brad Jones sustained a thigh injury. And the 27-year-old Belgian told how he tried to remain upbeat despite the disappointment at being axed. Simon Mignolet has revealed how his mental strength helped him recover after being dropped. Mignolet (second right) makes a save from a free kick during a league match against Swansea last month. Mignolet told FourFourTwo: 'I was positive. Every goalkeeper goes through those stages, and you only get mentally stronger from them. Because we play so many games, I just looked forward to the next match. 'I always wanted to keep improving and moving forward. I’m in my second year now at Liverpool and I’ve learned a lot. 'There’s always something to work on. I’ve just turned 27 but I still pick up things every day. That helps get through difficult moments.' Mignolet has been in impressive form since his return and has kept six consecutive Premier League clean sheets away from home. Mignolet (right) trains alongside fellow Belgian Thibaut Courtois (centre) in Israel earlier this week. Mignolet replaces Brad Jones during a match against Burnley at Turf Moor on Boxing Day last year. He said: 'I’ve been pleased with my form, but I don’t really look at records. The most important thing is the team, and winning points. 'Keeping a clean sheet isn’t something you do on your own – it’s a group effort. Since we changed to the new system, we’ve been well organised. 'You concede or score as a unit, and at the moment from the top of the pitch to me, we are pressing well. 'We’re tight at the back, we squeeze up well. Everyone is doing their job and working hard. It’s great to play behind a solid team.' Liverpool manager Brendan Rodgers (centre) speaks with Mignolet (left) and Jones at Melwood last October.
