Celtic's ambitions of persuading Manchester City to release Jason Denayer for another loan deal at Parkhead next season are well documented. But what you wish for and what you get are often oceans apart and so may be the case regarding Denayer after the pronouncements from City on Thursday. Put simply, manager Manuel Pellegrini has confessed that his club's young Academy players are not yet ready to step into his first-team squad. Therefore the likes of Denayer may soon find themselves returning from loan deals to fill the gap. Jason Denayer has impressed while playing for Celtic on loan this season from Manchester City. Celtic are keen to retain the services of the 19-year-old  Belgian defender, but face an uphill struggle to do so. City manager Manuel Pellegrini has confirmed that the club are looking to invest in homegrown talent. Pellegrini's comments confirm that City will be required to invest heavily in 'homegrown' talent this summer. Current Premier League regulations require clubs to carry a minimum eight homegrown players, a group which can include youngsters who have spent three of their formative years at an English club. Denayer falls into this category despite hailing from Belgium - making him all the more attractive to City next season. Pellegrini said: 'I think about the Academy, we must be patient. This club build all these things because young players are important. 'Maybe it's not so easy for young players, especially at big clubs, to play in the first team, with the professional squad. 'I'm sure in the future we will have very important players coming from the Academy, they will be part of the squad. 'But it's important to be patient, important to have years of working the same way. But you never know. Maybe some talented young players can do it before.' Denayer would obviously fit the bill. A number of young City professionals, including PSV's Karim Rekik and Marcos Lopes with Lille, are on loan and may be brought back to plug some of the holes next season. Celtic pair Virgil van Dijk (left) and Jason Denayer (right) arrive in Milan ahead of the Europa League tie.
