Comments: Veteran broadcaster Peter Alliss has sparked controversy by claiming gender equality laws have backfired and ‘b*****ed up the game’ Veteran broadcaster Peter Alliss has sparked controversy by claiming gender equality laws have backfired and ‘b*****ed up the game’. Alliss, 84, has said that legislation designed to stop golf clubs from discriminating against female members has instead prompted a decline in women’s membership. Some clubs had previously only allowed female members if they played at restricted times in return for a discounted membership fee. But the Equality Act 2010, drafted by the previous Labour government, ruled that this was illegal discrimination, which means that women must now have equal access to the course – and pay the same membership rates as men. Mr Alliss, a former professional who is one of the game’s most decorated players, claimed that tens of thousands of members of the Ladies’ Golf Union have deserted the organisation since the rules came into force. ‘I’m told the Ladies’ Golf Union has lost 150,000 members since equality for women came in,’ Mr Alliss told the Radio Times. ‘Hundreds of women have left golf clubs because they’ve gone from paying half fare to full fare. It’s caused mayhem.’ He added: ‘Equality for women: A few people battled away to get it, they got it, and they have buggered up the game for a lot of people.’ But Sam Burton, finance director at the Ladies’ Golf Union, said there has only been a decline of 30,000 women since the law came into force, taking membership down to 159,000 by last year. Mrs Burton said: ‘It’s not good that ladies golf is declining and we have to look at it, but I don’t think it’s the equalities legislation that is to blame. Golf has been dominated by men and we are always going to be the minority in any club that is mixed. But on the whole golf is becoming much more equal.’ Rant: He added: ‘Equality for women: A few people battled away to get it, they got it, and they have buggered up the game for a lot of people.’ She suggested that possible reasons why golf was not as popular among women included the fact that it was quite an expensive activity and that other sports such as cycling ‘have been marketed more successfully at women’. She added: ‘In 2015 we have to encourage equality and I certainly wouldn’t be a member at a club where I was treated differently just because I was a woman. ‘I think a lot of ladies would feel the same in this day and age.’ However, Tory MP Philip Davies said he agreed with Mr Alliss, adding: ‘This is the consequence of all the legislation. The equality fanatics can’t pick and choose – they either want full equality or they don’t. If they want full equality then they are going to have to pay the same price as everybody else. ‘I don’t suppose [Mr Alliss’s] view is outdated. His view is a factual view to be perfectly honest. He is looking at the practicalities of it.’ The Equality Act applies to clubs with mixed memberships. Male-only golf clubs are still legal. Mr Alliss became a professional golfer in 1947, represented Britain in the Ryder Cup eight times and won 21 tournaments in his career. He began working for the BBC in 1961.
