Ahead of this weekend's Premier League action, Sportsmail will be providing you with all you need to know about every fixture, with team news, provisional squads, betting odds and Opta stats. Here is all the information you need for Swansea's home clash with Hull... Swansea City vs Hull City (Liberty Stadium) Team news. Swansea. Swansea will make a late check on Ecuador winger Jefferson Montero before Hull's Barclays Premier League visit to the Liberty Stadium on Saturday. Montero suffered a muscle strain against Mexico during the international break and the injury is not as serious as first feared but on-loan Spurs midfielder Tom Carroll is definitely out after damaging ankle ligaments on England Under 21 duty and might not play again this season. Swansea's Jefferson Montero (right) suffered a muscle strain during Ecuador's 1-0 defeat by Mexico in a Los Angeles friendly on Saturday. Midfielder Leon Britton and defender Kyle Bartley are both back in training after being absent in recent weeks and have been added to the Swansea squad. Provisional squad: Fabianski, Naughton, Fernandez, Williams, Taylor, Cork, Ki, Shelvey, Routledge, Sigurdsson, Gomis, Tremmel, Rangel, Amat, Bartley, Fulton, Britton, Montero, Dyer, Emnes, Oliveira, Grimes, King. Hull. Mohamed Diame and James Chester will make their long-awaited returns to the Hull squad for Saturday's trip to Swansea. Gaston Ramirez is also fit to play despite concerns about an injury picked up on international duty. Mohamed Diame scores a goal for Hull against Crystal Palace earlier in the season, but the midfielder hasn't featured for the Tigers since early December. Tom Huddlestone is suspended while Nikica Jelavic and Robert Snodgrass (both knee) remain sidelined. Provisional squad: McGregor, Harper, Davies, Dawson, McShane, Robertson, Bruce, Chester, Elmohamady, Livermore, Diame, Meyler, Quinn, Hernandez, Aluko, Ramirez, N'Doye. Kick-off: Saturday, 3pm. Odds (subject to change):. Swansea 5/6. Draw 12/5. Hull 7/2. Referee: Andre Marriner. Managers: Garry Monk (Swansea), Steve Bruce (Hull) Head-to-head league record: Swansea wins 28, draws 16, Hull wins 23. Key match stats (supplied by Opta) Swansea City have not lost back to back Premier League home games since January 2014. Hull City have won just one of their last 14 Premier League away matches (W1 D6 L7). The Tigers have won none of their seven Premier League matches against fellow “City”s this season (W0 D3 L4). Hull have won four and lost just one of the last seven league meetings with Swansea. No side in the Premier League this season have averaged fewer touches in the opposition box per game than Swansea (16) and Hull (15). Swansea have seen just seven players score for them in the Premier League this season and their top goalscorer (Bony – nine) is no longer at the club. Swansea are looking to record a league double over Hull having beaten the Tigers 1-0 in December thanks to a Ki Sung-yueng (right) goal, who here celebrates his winner with team-mate Jonjo Shelvey. Hull City have won just three points (D3 L5) in the eight games that Nikica Jelavic has missed this season. They have scored just five goals in these matches. Since the start of 2013-14, Ahmed Elmohamady has fired in 412 crosses from open play in the Premier League; 89 more than any other player. Hull have conceded 12 goals from outside the box this season in the Premier League; more than any other side. The Tigers have attempted just 95 shots (excl. blocked) away from home this season in the Premier League; fewer than any other side.
