Somersaulting high in the skies with dizzying abandon, it is hard to imagine that this U.S. fighter jet is some 70 years old - and reconstructed from more than 200 parts. The Quick Silver P-51D Mustang has been painstakingly restored by father-and-son team Bill and Scooter Yoak as a tribute to American servicemen who have died in combat. And as this stunning on-board video shows, they have done their countrymen proud. Stunning video shows an American P-51D Mustang fighter jet taking to skies after a painstaking restoration. The fighter jet is some 70 years old and was reconstructed from more than 200 parts by a father-and-son team. The P-51, nicknamed The Resurrected Veteran, was pieced together by Bill Yoak, who did all the metal work by hand, and is flown by Scooter at air shows around the country. Originally built in 1945, it was among scores of long-range, single-seat bombers rolled out during World War Two and later used in the Korean War before being retired in the 1980s. The Yoaks say their aircraft was a 'celebration of our nation's armed forces', adding: 'Every aspect of the paint represents those who have served and those who gave the ultimate sacrifice.' Writing on their website Quick Silver Mustang, they said: 'The black cape covering the front of the aircraft represents the veil of protection that our armed forces give us. 'That veil is one of the reasons why we have what we have today - freedom.' Dizzying: Bill and Scooter Yoak restored the plane as a tribute to U.S. servicemen who have died in combat. Vertigo-inducing flight: The Yoaks say their aircraft is a 'celebration of our nation's armed forces' The cape extends to the back of the canopy, spreading out and dividing into feathers, which they say 'symbolises the eagle that has flown with every aviator since the birth of aviation in 1903.' They add: 'The black paint has tiny sparkling stars in it, each sparkle represents an American Veteran that served our great country; the unsung stars in our lives. 'These veterans are the glimmering star in a mother’s eye, a wife or husband’s heart, a son or daughter’s hope for the future. 'As this silver bird quickly streaks across the sky, let us not forget those who served, sacrificed, and gave their all. God Bless America!' Historic: Originally built in 1945, the plane was among scores of long-range, single-seat bombers rolled out during World War Two and later used in the Korean War before being retired in the 1980s. Public tribute: The jet was pieced together by Bill Yoak, who did all the metal work by hand, and is flown by Scooter at air shows around the country. In their memory: Every aspect of the paint represents those who have served and gave the ultimate sacrifice.
