If selected on Sunday, David Templeton will form part of a Rangers guard of honour to recognise the outstanding Championship success of his former club. There will be no feelings of envy as he applauds Hearts on to the Ibrox pitch. Despite enduring much injury-induced frustration in his three seasons in Govan, the winger remains adamant he can prove his worth by rekindling the kind of form he once showed in maroon. Templeton made his first start in almost three months last weekend as Stuart McCall's recorded a 4-1 victory over Cowdenbeath. That followed up a breakthrough win over Hibernian at Easter Road and enhanced confidence ahead of a real litmus test of their recent progress. Rangers ace David Templeton promotes tickets for Sunday's match against Hearts at Ibrox. Hearts romped to the title with seven games to spare and currently sit 26 points in front of a Rangers side fighting to finish as best of the rest ahead of the play-offs. This wasn't a scenario Templeton could ever have envisaged when he moved west along the M8 in August 2012, away from Vladimir Romanov's teetering reign that would eventually lapse into administration. Back then, Rangers were just starting to emerge from their own, even deeper, financial meltdown of liquidation. Few predicted any on-field problems in their journey back up the leagues. Rangers' Haris Vuckic & Nicky Clark training at Murray Park ahead of the clash with Hearts. This season has told a very different story. Templeton, though, insists he has had no regretful thoughts of what it would be like to somehow still be a Hearts player. 'No, because I think I would have been away the following season anyway,' he said. 'At the time I moved, it was the right time for me, I was kind of forced out, as well. 'It was just one of those things, it was a good move at the time and if we can go up through the play-offs then I still think it would have been a good move. Rangers' Tom Walsh training at Murray Park ahead of their clash with runaway leaders Hearts. 'It's massive that we do that. When I signed for Rangers with the squad we had, I thought we would go up each year. For us as a club - and the supporters and everyone - it's massive to get back to the top league. 'My time here has been pretty frustrating, personally. The first season I really enjoyed, although I picked up a couple of injuries which didn't help. 'Last season, I had a couple of little niggles pre-season and then I didn't play a lot. This season, the exact same. Hopefully now I can keep myself fit and start afresh if we go up.' Rangers captain Lee McCulloch holds the ball up as his teammates look on during a training session. Templeton is not among the dozen or so first-team players out of contract this summer, with 12 months still left on his deal. 'The fans have definitely not seen the best of me,' he admitted. 'I need to get back playing the way I was before I signed here because that was the reason I signed for Rangers. 'I know that I'm good enough to get back to that and hopefully the manager sees that in me.' Rangers trialists Milos Milovic (left) and Josef Shirdel (right) are put through their paces during training. Templeton on Friday lauded the difference McCall has made since his arrival last month. The 26-year-old claimed he now felt more confident about expressing himself on the field. 'Earlier in the season, I played a few games and didn't do too well, but at the same time the team wasn't doing as well either and it's hard to stand out then,' he said. 'Last Saturday we were really attacking and creating a load of chances which made me feel a lot better, a lot more confident. The manager has given me the confidence as well since he has come in. Rangers' Lee Wallace tests his reaction speeds as he is put through his paces during training. 'Even before I'm going on in games, he'll just tell me to stay wide, get the ball and attack. It doesn't matter how many times I lose it in the final third, but just to try and make things happen. As a winger, that's what you like to hear - that you're not going to be criticised for trying to do the right things.' Hearts have won both previous matches against Rangers this term but Templeton believes the gap in those games was not significant. 'The past few times we have played Hearts we didn't actually do too badly,' he added. 'In the first game of the season we should have won it - I missed a sitter at 0-0 and if I had scored it we would have gone on to win the game. Templeton holds the ball up as a Rangers teammate looks to dispossess him during a training session. 'The second game, we started well and they couldn't get out of their half. But then we had a man sent off which didn't help us. 'It will be good to play against them on Sunday. They have been excellent this season and thoroughly deserved to win the title. But we will work on how we will play and I am sure we will all be ready.' McCall is dismissive of any suggestion that Hearts might somehow slacken off having already secured a Premiership return. Hearts' Jordan McGhee (right) speaks with teammate Callum Paterson at training ahead of their game. 'If you have won nine on the bounce and you are champions then you are going to have a lot of confidence,' insisted the Ibrox boss. 'Every one of their players will have that. They also have a real good spirit. 'It is a test for us but every game between now and the end of the season will bring a test. Going down to Queen of the South on Thursday will be tough. 'But I take the point that people will look at the Hearts game and think it might be a barometer of how far we have come. The Hearts squad train at Tynecastle ahead of their fixture with Rangers on Sunday. 'We have improved each game and that is all we are asking for again. But we will slip up between now and the end of the season, no doubt. We won't win every game. 'There will be ups and downs but it is about how we handle it. There is a little bit of belief back in the players again, but we know it is only two wins. No-one is getting carried away.' *All tickets previously purchased for the abandoned Rangers v Hearts game at Ibrox on Friday, 16 January are still valid. Tickets are also available from: www.rangers.co.uk, 0871 702 1972, Rangers Ticket Centre until kick-off Prices from £21 adults, £15 concessions and £5 kids.
