A 12-year-old boy who fell out of a five-storey window miraculously survived after landing on a car parked beneath the building. According to his father, the boy most likely fell while sleepwalking. The incident happened last Saturday in Nanchang, the provincial capital of Jiangxi in southeastern China, reported the People’s Daily Online. Life-saving car: The 12-year-old boy from Nanchang was saved by this car parked underneath the building. Miraculous: The kid fell from the fourth floor of this building while sleepwalking, according to his father. A hotel receptionist working across the road said she heard a loud bang around midnight, which she thought was a car accident. When she went out to have a look she discovered there was the body of a boy lying on top of a white car. The boy was crying out for help. 'The car’s windscreen was shattered and there was a lot of blood,' said the eyewitness. The receptionist added: 'The boy was conscious at the time and an ambulance was called to take him to the hospital. Someone said that he had fallen from the fourth floor. 'He’s really lucky. If it wasn’t for the car, he would not have survived.' Doctors at the Nanchang University Medical Hospital said that the boy did not have life-threatening injuries. The main injury was to his leg but he needed further observations. Nonvital injuries: Doctors said that the boy did not have life-threatening injuries but his leg was hurt. The boy’s father said: “I don’t know how he fell out of the window but he said that he was sleepwalking.” The Public Security Bureau is further investigating the incident. However, the owner of the car, Xiao Deng, doesn’t feel so lucky. Scene of the incident: Neighbours noticed the fall when the boy was on top of the car and yelling for help. Deng was having dinner nearby and when he returned saw the damage to his car. He said that he bought the car just six months ago. He has called the insurance company but representative told him they have never handled such an incident before and needed to check to see how much of this is covered.
