Stuart McCall revealed captain Lee McCulloch apologised to him and the Rangers players after being sent off in the 2-1 win over runaway Scottish Championship winners Hearts at Ibrox. Goals from striker Kenny Miller and the returning midfielder Haris Vuckic had the home side two ahead and cruising before McCulloch was shown a straight red card by referee Bobby Madden for fouling striker Osman Sow. It left the 10-man Govan side to fight a rearguard battle in the second half and, although Jambos striker Genero Zeefuik reduced the deficit in the 83rd minute, Rangers held on to move into second place in the league, three points ahead of Hibernian with a game in hand over the Leith club. Lee McCulloch was sent off during Rangers' crucial 2-1 victory against Hearts in the Scottish Championship. Staurt McCall says the Gers captain apologised to him as well as the players after the incident. The Gers boss said: 'Believe it or not I haven't seen it again and I didn't see it live - all I was interested in was Zeefuik going through the middle - but I spoke to Bobby coming off and he said he caught him with his elbow. 'Jig (McCulloch) came in after the game and apologised to me and the team so obviously it must have merited a red card.' The former Rangers midfielder paid tribute to Gers supporters in the crowd of 40,521 who willed their team on to a third successive win when they were down to 10 men. He said: 'In the second half, that was the first time for a long, long time, since I was playing, that I got goosebumps out there. McCulloch walks off the pitch after he was shown the red card on Easter Sunday. 'The fans deserved that (win) but I thought the players deserved their applause coming off the park because you need both together to be a success. 'It was pleasing in a lot of ways. We set out with a game plan to stop Hearts playing because they are a good side, no doubt about that. 'Obviously it was two terrific goals, but I thought the tempo and passing in the first half was outstanding. 'I thought the second half was just about guts, desire, being a good team-mate, so it was a hard shift but a nervy finish.' Man of the match Nicky Law also noted the improving relationship between players and supporters. The Rangers midfielder said: 'The crowd just lifted everyone and the atmosphere was as good as it has been since I signed at the club and Hearts fans played their part in that as well. 'Probably for the first time the fans have been right behind us and united as one, which it hasn't been for a while and that was great to see. 'We know that has been down to ourselves in large parts because it hasn't been good enough. 'But we hope that they see the effort we are putting in and hopefully we can achieve the aim that we started the season with and repay the fans. 'It was a huge win for us. Three wins on the spin now and the boys are buzzing.' McCall has paid tribute to the 40,521 Rangers fans who made it to Ibrox for the game. It was Hearts' first away defeat in the league all season and head coach Robbie Neilson refused to be too downbeat. He said: 'I thought we dominated in the second half without creating a lot of chances. I don't think we did enough to win. 'But the pleasing think is I am sitting here at Ibrox, having lost 2-1 and everyone is devastated. 'We have to take a step back and look at the big picture. 'We are 23 points clear at the top of the Championship and we are guaranteed top level football next year. 'So I don't want to be too down. I spoke to the players after the game and told them to put it into perspective. 'When they walk out of Ibrox they should have their heads held high because they are champions and it doesn't matter what happens in one game, it is a 36-game league and they have been the best team.' Kenny Miller (left) celebrates scoring for Rangers against Championship winners Hearts on Sunday.
