The Champions of England were smashed into submission at Stade Marcel Michelin on Saturday night, to further expose the vast gulf in clout between the Aviva Premiership clubs and their rich French rivals. This was a brutal mismatch and a shattering result, not just for the ambitious Saints but for the English game as a whole. Jim Mallinder’s men are imperious in domestic rugby — leading the league by 10 points — but they were simply obliterated by the formidable Top 14 giants. Clermont are nigh-on invincible at home and Northampton could do absolutely nothing to even fleetingly threaten their dominance in this raucous arena. Even in the brief moments when the Saints had the temerity to work up a head of steam and go through the phases, they were pounded back in the tackle and turned over time and time again. Clermont winger Noa Nakaitaci (right) scores his second try against Northampton. What unfolded was one-way carnage. France wing Noa Nakaitaci scoring two tries before half-time and Nick Abendanon, the ex-Bath and England full-back, capped a masterful display with a break-away try from 90 metres out. All the while, Brock James kept cranking up the points tally with supreme goal-kicking. Aside from the misery of being dumped out of the Champions Cup in such emphatic fashion, the concern for the Saints will be that this grim rout critically damages their confidence at a key stage of the season. For Northampton and England, there may also be worries over two leading forwards, as Courtney Lawes failed to reappear after half-time and Alex Corbisiero went off, apparently suffering pain in his right knee. Nick Abendanon of Clermont dives over to score a try at the Stade Marcel-Michelin. It was over as a contest long before half-time. There was a pronounced intensity deficit between the sides from the off, with Northampton losing the collisions and appearing somewhat sluggish in contrast to their fired up and energetic opponents. The procession began in the fifth minute when the Saints conceded an early scrum penalty. James landed his first shot at goal and the hosts were on their way. There was so much pressure from Clermont that it was just a matter of time before the Northampton defence was breached. Sure enough, the first try came in the 13th minute, as Fritz Lee blasted clear from a lineout on the right and he released Wesley Fofana. Abendanon cast his magic over the saints defence to inspire comprehensive victory. The France centre was tackled in the 22 by Lee Dickson, but the attack continued at a furious tempo and, when Nakaitaci carved inside off his left foot, he was half stopped, but managed to climb up off the turf, stretch and touch down. The try was confirmed by the TMO and converted by James. It didn’t help the Saints’ already bleak cause that they missed their first scoring chance. After Courtney Lawes had pinched a Clermont lineout throw, the visitors won a penalty but Stephen Myler was off target with the kick. James landed another penalty, then came the two-try barrage which buried Northampton’s hopes of a famous result. At the heart of the onslaught was Abendanon. First, his break laid the platform for Fofana to burst deep into enemy territory and after Napolioni Nalaga was tackled short of the line, the ball was switched right and James’ lofted pass sent Nakaitaci over for his second try. Northampton captain Dylan Hartley leads his team off the pitch after crushing defeat. James converted from a wide angle then two minutes before the break, the blitz continued. Jonathan Davies made ground in the centre, Fofana picked out Abendanon and he raced into space, drew the last defender and passed back inside for the home No 12 to charge clear and touch down. Once again, James added the extras and the Saints were sunk. After the break, James struck another penalty before Abendanon made his long-range dash to the line in the 55th minute, for another converted try. Eventually, with Julien Bonnaire in the sin-bin, Alex Waller crashed over to give Northampton something to show for all their desperate toil, but it was far too little, far too late. The horse had bolted. The game was up.
