West Ham manager Sam Allardyce has defended Nigel Pearson and admires the Leicester City boss for being 'his own man.' Allardyce had Pearson on his coaching staff when he was Newcastle United manager in 2007, and the pair will be reunited when West Ham face Leicester at the King Power Stadium on Saturday. Pearson has been involved in several controversial incidents this season, including grabbing Crystal Palace's James McArthur by the throat and losing his cool with a reporter during a press conference. Leicester City boss Nigel Pearson (left) has been involved in a number of controversial incidents this season. However, West Ham manager Sam Allardyce has defended Pearson and says that he is 'his own man' In February, Pearson was involved in an altercation with Crystal Palace midfielder James McArthur. It has added to speculation Pearson will be sacked by Leicester with the club sitting bottom of the Barclays Premier League, but Allardyce feels his former colleague has done an 'unbelievable job'. 'He's his own man. He has his own methods and believes in not only himself but what he is doing,' Allardyce said. 'Occasionally as we all get under pressure, we may make odd comments or the odd mistake, but we're human beings like everybody else. 'He's done an unbelievable job, not just at Leicester but as a manager.' Leicester are seven points from safety, albeit with a game in hand against leaders Chelsea, but Allardyce feels Pearson will be frustrated because their performances do not warrant their lowly position. Leicester defender Robert Huth (centre) in action during the club's session at Belvoir Drive Training Ground. 'I think overall Nigel must be pulling out his hair,' Allardyce added. 'Why have those performances not given them more results? That's the cruciality of the Premier League. 'On occasion his team have been in the ascendency. They have not taken advantage of it by not scoring or converting chances. They've paid the ultimate price in the end. That's this level for you. 'There are critical moments and if you don't take them, they're very costly indeed. Performances are always important, but in the end it's a results business.' West Ham scored with their only two shots on target against Leicester when they beat them 2-0 in December, and Pearson will try to end a goal-drought at the King Power Stadium that is five hours and 15 minutes long. Leicester's Danny Drinkwater (left) and David Nugent (right) are put through their paces in training. Pearson talks to his Leicester squad ahead of their Premier League game against West Ham on Saturday.
