A gay porn star allegedly blackmailed a wealthy California man out of $500,000 by threatening to reveal details of his personal life. Teofil Brank, better known by his stage name Jarec Wentworth, was arrested on March 4 by the FBI in Los Angeles. Investigators said he tried to exact the ownership of a condo and $1 million in cash from the victim, who has only been identified as D.B. Teofil Brank, better known by his stage name Jarec Wentworth, was arrested on March 4 by the FBI in Los Angeles on blackmail charges. Investigators said Brank tried to exact the ownership of a condo and $1 million in cash from the victim. In a March 20 indictment, Brank was charged with felony extortion by threatening to injure someone's reputation. He faces up to two years in prison. In text messages to the victim, Brank threatened to post photos and other details of the man's trysts through his Twitter account, according to the affidavit. Prosecutors said the accused published a damaging comment online about the unidentified man, then removed it, the LA Times reported. The porn star wrote in text messages to the victim in February: 'I'm just going to bite hard. I want a new car,motorcycle and both hands full of cash.' 'I do have a twitter and your photos. Lies can be made or maybe it's the truth.' He went on: 'Check my twitter, the conversation will grown [sic] and questions will be asked. You lied to me and treated me like s***. I asked again and you put it behind you. Now it's biting your a**' D.B's attorneys contacted the FBI and Brank was arrested in a sting operation after the two men met up in a coffee shop where the porn star had made demands to be given cash and the title for an Audi R8 worth $180,000. Brank was found in possession of a revolver on his arrest. Brank was scheduled to appear in court on Thursday for a bail review hearing. He was previously denied bail as the judge deemed him a flight risk. Brank's attorneys appealed the decision. The porn star's public defenders also asked that the name of his victim be revealed arguing that D.B allegedly paid Brank for sex. A trial has been scheduled for May 12. Teofil Brank (pictured right) is better known by his porn stage name Jarec Wentworth. He faces up to two years in jail over the blackmail charges.
