Jose Mourinho could one day make a shock return to manage Real Madrid even after his high-profile and acrimonious exit, according to Real defender Alvaro Arbeloa. The Chelsea manager ended his three-year spell in Madrid to rejoin his current club in 2013, leaving the Spanish capital amid rumours of bust-ups with senior players, including club captain Iker Casillas, Sergio Ramos and Pepe. But right back Arbeloa, who has made 25 first-team appearances this season, says Real's door will never be closed to bringing the combustible Portuguese coach back as boss. Chelsea manager Jose Mourinho could return to take charge of Real Madrid one day, says Alvaro Arbeloa. Arbeloa handed a portion of the credit for Real's Champions League win to Mourinho's groundwork. Under Carlo Ancelotti's stewardship, Real lifted the 10th European Cup that they had craved for so long. The former Liverpool defender also handed a portion of credit for last season's La Decima Champions League win to Mourinho, saying his work was the foundation of their success under Carlo Ancelotti. 'Yes there is a possibility of Jose returning to Madrid,' Arbeloa said. 'Why not? Madrid's door is not closed for a great coach. 'Mourinho has many fond memories of Real Madrid. For La Decima, we have to credit Ancelotti but Jose planted the foundations.' Mourinho left Madrid and rejoined Chelsea in 2013 and has since led his team to the brink of another title. The Special One endured a trophyless campaign in his last year with Real which he said was his worst season. Arbeloa was said to be one of Mourinho's main 'disciples' in the dressing room, and he admits he has spoken with the Chelsea manager as recently as last week. He also said that despite the talk of unrest in the camp at Real, the Special One left on good terms before joining Chelsea, particularly with expected summer transfer target Raphael Varane. Mourinho is said to be considering a £40million move for the French centre back when the transfer window opens in July. Arbeloa (left) was said to be one of Mourinho's main 'disciples' in the dressing room and the pair still talk. Mourinho's arguments with senior players including Iker Casillas, the club captain, were well documented. 'I spoke to him (Mourinho) last Friday,' Arbeloa told El Chiringuito. 'He’s happy and content in London because his family are happy and there isn’t the daily persecution he and his kids got here. 'The press emphasised (how) it ended badly but Jose ended well with most - (Luka) Modric,  Varane, Diego (Lopez), Xabi (Alonso). 'Professionally he has a great team and is doing well.' Arbeloa says Mourinho is happy in London, having won the Capital One Cup with Chelsea last month. Raphael Varane, said to be a summer target for Mourinho, ended on good terms with his former manager.
