Arsenal legend Ian Wright would be disappointed to see Theo Walcott leave north London, and believes his troubled times at the club are down to Arsene Wenger's refusal to play him as a striker. Walcott has made just five starts for Arsenal this season since returning from a serious knee injury after seven months on the sidelines. And with Arsenal pursuing Raheem Sterling and Walcott's contract set to run out next summer, Wright is worried that the Gunners could stand to lose a valuable player. Theo Walcott could be on the way out of Arsenal, and Gunners legend Ian Wright says that would be 'a shame' Wright enjoys Walcott as a player and hinted that he would like to see the winger stay at the club. Walcott started up front for England against Italy on Tuesday but his appearances have been limited this year. 'It's a shame for him, and the fact that people are talking about him maybe moving on if someone else comes in makes me quite sad,' he said. 'I really like him at Arsenal but he's got massive decisions to make in the next few months.' Wright also believes the England wideman, who was played in a central role for his country in Italy on Tuesday night, should have been moved into a similar position for his Arsenal. Walcott's pace had seen him likened to the Gunners' record goalscorer Thierry Henry, who made a similar positional switch during his time in north London, but manager Wenger has only briefly experimented with Walcott as a striker. Thierry Henry was prolific as a striker for Arsenal after being moved inside from his familiar wide role. Arsene Wenger has only briefly used Walcott up front, and Wright says it should have been persisted with. Liverpool's Raheem Sterling is an Arsenal target who also has his contract expiring in the near future. 'I always believed Theo should have been a striker at Arsenal with his pace. I thought playing him on the right would last so long and then he would get moved inside,' Wright told Goal. I'm not saying he's the same kind of player as Thierry Henry by any stretch, but I thought Arsene would move him inside. 'I think that's been to his detriment, because he would have learned a lot more about the game and runs he'd have to make. I've seen him finish very well when he gets into one-on-one situations.'
