Belly flop to belly up?  It’s fair to say Steve Bruce has had better weeks than this one, which featured the publication of some poolside diving snaps and culminated in a defeat that suggests Hull might yet bomb out of the Premier League. This was a game they could not afford to lose. Not when their final seven games include fixtures against Southampton, Liverpool, Arsenal, Tottenham and Manchester United. But lose they did, bringing their winless run to five and leaving themselves in a right mess. Bafetimbi Gomis roars with celebration after giving Swansea a 2-0 lead against Hull at the Liberty Stadium on Saturday. Gomis unleashed a thunderous overhead kick shortly before half-time to capitalise on some poor Hull defending. The French striker fires a spectacular volley past Allan McGregor and into the roof of the Hull net to double the home side's lead. The Swansea striker celebrates his strike in front of a group of young supporters after doubling his side's lead in the first half. Swansea (4-3-3): Fabianski 6.5; Naughton 6 (Rangel 56, 6), Fernandez 6.5, Williams 7, Taylor 7; Ki 7, Cork 6.5 (Dyer 65, 6), Shelvey 6.5 (Grimes 90); Sigurdsson 6.5, Gomis 7.5, Routledge 6.5. Subs not used: Amat, Emnes, Oliveira, Tremmel. Booked: Williams. Scorer(s): Ki 18, Gomis 37, 90+1. Hull (3-5-2): McGregor 5.5; Dawson 5.5, Bruce 6 (Diame 70, 6), McShane 6.5; Elmohamady 6, Ramirez 5.5 (Quinn 30, 6), Livermore 6, Meyler 5, Brady 6; N'Doye 5, Hernandez 4.5 (Aluko 81) Subs not used: Rosenior, Chester, Sagbo, Harper. Booked: Hernandez, McShane, N’Doye, Bruce, Diame. Sent off: Meyler 53. Scorer(s): McShane 50. Referee: Andre Mariner. Man of the match: Bafetimbi Gomis. Bafetimbi Gomis scored a spectacular overhead. CLICK HERE for more match zone. True, they could have benefited more from refereeing decisions – Bafetimbi Gomis was offside in the build up to his brilliant first goal and David Meyler’s second-half red card could have gone either way – but that should not exonerate a side that is supposed to be fighting for it life and yet looked so meek for half of this match. They managed no shots on goal in the time it took Swansea to go 2-0 ahead through Ki Sung-Yueng and Gomis’s bicycle kick. And it was only in the second half that they mounted a challenge. As fate would have it, Meyler was sent off for fouling Kyle Naughton two minutes after Paul McShane had given Hull a lifeline. Gomis finished them in stoppage time. Bruce was exasperated. He said: ‘We were disappointed to lose the game and we knew we were nowhere near good enough in the first-half in particular. ‘But the two big decisions went against us and they could have turned the game. Gomis’ first goal is a fantastic piece of skill but he is five yards offside. Gomis grabbed his second of the match after racing on to Jonjo Shelvey's pass and chipping McGregor in injury time. The 29-year-old celebrates in front of the Swansea fans on his hands and knees after making sure of the three points. Paul McShane pulled a goal back for Hull five minutes into the second half when he pounced in the six-yard box. The Hull defender slotted past Lukasz Fabianski from just four yard out after latching onto a free kick totally unmarked. ‘We had got back into the game at 2-1 but unfortunately David has picked up a red card. I’ve seen it six times now and from three angles and to me it’s a perfectly decent challenge. ‘The other three I look at it and he takes part of the ball and the leg collides with the boy. We may as well say with these grey areas that you are not allowed to tackle if you tackle on the floor.’ The consequence of the challenge, beyond damage to Hull’s survival prospects, is that Naughton went to hospital for an X-ray on his ankle. Garry Monk said: ‘His ankle is really swollen. That is the real negative. We hope it is not serious. At the time I thought it was a genuine 50-50 challenge. My initial reaction was “bad challenge” but I don’t think there was any malice. You run that risk if your foot is high and goes over the ball.’ For Monk, it was the only complaint from a match that Swansea probably could have won in third gear. That’s no exaggeration in the context of how poor Hull were in the opening 45 minutes. For a team in that kind of mess, with those fixtures still to come, it was incomprehensible. That’s not to say Swansea stormed from the blocks. Ki’s opener after 18 minutes was actually the first chance of the game. Jonjo Shelvey had taken his usual punt from distance and while Allan McGregor did well to get down and save, his parry fell squarely at the feet of the South Korean. David Meyler was sent off for the visitors just three minutes after McShane pulled a goal back for a lunge on Kyle Naughton. Hull midfielder Meyler and his team-mates look on in disbelief as Andre Mariner reaches for the red card. Swansea right back Naughton limps from the field and has to be replaced by Angel Rangel following Meyler's tackle. Ki buried the finish without taking a touch and now has scored four goals in eight games. With seven this season, the deep-lying midfielder has become a delightfully complete player. It took 24 minutes for Hull to have their first chance – Abel Hernandez hit a bouncing ball from 30 yards and it trickled all the way to Lukasz Fabianski. It wasn’t even on target. The rest of their attacks fizzled, a side with five across the middle seemingly incapable of holding possession. Gomis nailed the second with a goal that was hardly at home in such a subdued game. It really was a beautiful finish. Kyle Naughton delivered a ball into the area, Michael Dawson attempted to head clear and the striker buried a bicycle kick. Replays showed he had come back from an offside position, but the finish was magnificent. At that stage, Hull appeared out of it. Monk warned his side of complacency at the break and, in his words, ‘they did the total opposite’. It enabled Hull to pull one back after 49 minutes. Ashley Williams had tangled with Dame N’Doye and conceded a free-kick which Robbie Brady delivered from the right. Alex Bruce found space from six yards to flick a header at goal and McShane poked a finish past Fabianski. For two minutes Hull looked a genuine threat. And then, just as quickly, hope was gone. Meyler went high on Naughton and will miss the next three games. Ki Sung-Yueng opened the scoring for the home side inside 20 minutes after pouncing following an Allan McGregor save. Ki leads the celebrations after giving Garry Monk's side an early advantage at the Liberty Stadium on Saturday. Hull, to their credit, did not give up. But it was in their desperation for a leveller that they conceded a third. Nathan Dyer dispossessed Brady and Sigurdsson sent a long ball to Gomis. With none of Hull’s outfield players in their own half, the Frenchman had time to think before a nice chip over McGregor. In this strange old season of moans and a feint, he has also made his way to eight goals in all competitions. It will be interesting to see if his improved recent form has soothed some of the anger caused by his January agitations. It will be more interesting in the shorter term to see if Hull can find the significant improvement needed to get themselves out of this hole.
