England Test captain Alastair Cook feared Jonathan Trott's international career was over 18 months ago, but feels he is now ready to face the 'pressure cooker' once again. Trott dramatically left the 2013/14 Ashes trip after just one match at the Gabba having struggled with what was initially labelled a 'stress-related condition' and later diagnosed as situational anxiety. Cook was concerned that would be the end of his Three Lions days but has watched the 33-year-old rebuild his career with typical focus and determination, first with Warwickshire then during a productive winter tour with England Lions. Jonathan Trott during a nets session as he returned to the international scene and could be ready to play. The pair are now heavy favourites to open the batting together in West Indies this month and should get a first chance against a St Kitts & Nevis Invitation XI on Monday. Uncapped Yorkshireman Adam Lyth is the other top-order batsman on tour but Trott appears to have first claim after batting alongside the skipper in Saturday's centre-wicket practice session at Warner Park. 'He was in a bad place in Brisbane and at the time I would have been surprised that he'd come back, but it's a huge credit to the work he's done off the field and the effort he's put in,' said Cook. 'That obviously shows his desire to come back to play for England. Test captain Alastair Cook feels the batsman is ready for the 'pressure cooker' of international cricket. 'He has almost demanded selection with the runs he has scored for Warwickshire and it's great for me to see him back in an England shirt. He's a great guy and if he gets his chance he'll be desperate to do well.' Cook accepted there was no guarantee over how Trott would react to the glare of the international game, which remains several notches beyond anything he will have experienced on the county or Lions circuit. But with a CV boasting 49 Tests, 3,763 runs and nine centuries, Cook is delighted to have him back on board and nudging the selectors for a recall. 'I am (confident), but you don't know 100 per cent until he's put out in the environment - that is always unknown,' he said. Trott (left) and Cook train together during a batting session at Warner Park, Basseterre, St Kitts & Nevis. 'There's a lot of things about selection that are unknown until you're put into the pressure cooker of international cricket and, make no mistake, it's a high-intensity environment, there's no doubt about that. 'But Trotty's done everything we've asked of him. He feels confident in himself and he's just looking forward to taking that next step. 'What we do know is he's a quality player. You don't have his stats and that weight of runs behind you without being a quality player.' For his own part, Cook is in need of a successful series both as captain and run-scorer. The last of his 25 Test centuries came in May 2013 and he was stripped of the one-day captaincy on the eve of the World Cup, though in hindsight his absence from the tournament may have been a blessing given England's travails. The Warwickshire batsman has been in fine form for them and rightly deserved his call-up. Now, rested and recharged following his enforced spell at home, he is setting his sights on nothing short of victory in the three-Test series. 'It's been great to spend a bit of time at home, live a bit more of a normal life away from the travelling circuit of cricket,' he said. 'That's been great, at home with my family, but now it's the serious business of trying to win the series here. 'It's always important we win. When you play for England you carry the hopes and the pride of the nation on your shoulders. 'That hasn't changed since the day I started playing.' Trott looks for a single during a training session at Warner Park, Basseterre, St Kitts & Nevis.
