Bath will look to their England contingent to lead the charge against Leinster in Dublin as they attempt to make amends for their Six Nations defeat at the Aviva Stadium last month. George Ford, Dave Attwood, Jonathan Joseph and Anthony Watson all return to the scene of the 19-9 defeat by Ireland which halted another Grand Slam crusade, and their club’s head coach feels that setback could prove beneficial in their Champions Cup quarter-final. Jonathan Joseph will be among Bath's England contingent in Dublin on Saturday. Bath centre Joseph has a point to prove after England’s Six Nations defeat in Dublin. ‘George, Anthony, JJ and Dave have been telling the rest of the squad what the Aviva is going to be like,’ said Bath head coach Mike Ford. ‘Their experience of that is valuable for us. ‘In the long run, these players come back better experienced and the fact they’ve done what they’ve done with England this season means they are not going to have any fear of going back to the Aviva.’ The leading quartet have points to prove in the Irish capital…. Dave Attwood. The lock produced an energetic performance for England but the line-out he was running crucially malfunctioned twice and he needlessly conceded a penalty. He will be determined to deliver a dominant carrying, aerial and defensive performance. George Ford. As the national team’s playmaker, he was pressured by the intensity of the Irish defence and kicking game — which he didn’t manage to match — in an otherwise superb championship campaign. He will crave the platform to run the show with typical authority. Fly-half George Ford will seek to run the show for Bath in Champions Cup quarter-final. Jonathan Joseph. Bath’s electric centre was a deadly presence in England’s midfield in other games but in Dublin he was not given the ammunition to fire. If he is presented with enough ball then he has the individual talent to shred the home defence. Leinster have been studying him carefully. Anthony Watson. On the wing for England, the outing at the Aviva Stadium was not his finest, as he struggled to handle the barrage from the air. On Saturday, he will be positioned at full back for his club so he must be much more assured under the high ball and use his license to counter-attack from deep to full effect. And here are four of the Ireland players in Leinster colours aiming to sink English hopes again…. Cian Healy. The Lions prop had a limited impact on Ireland’s Six Nations title success as he was eased back into action after injury. However, he starts today for the Blues and will be fired up to demonstrate his clout as a strong carrier who can also more than hold his own in the scrum battle. Leinster's Rob Kearney (right) is a real threat as a strike runner. Jamie Heaslip. The experienced No 8 missed the visit of England after suffering fractured vertebrae in his back caused by the knee of France lock Pascal Pape. These are the days — the big occasions — when he raises his game: strutting, charging and hitting rucks. Rob Kearney. The Ireland full back is imperious under the high ball so the Test encounter with England last month suited him perfectly. He will be keen to provide a reminder of his threat as a strike runner but he also provides a crucial kicking outlet if the hosts are pinned down. Sean O’Brien. He’s known as the ‘Tullow Tank’ and it is easy to understand how he came by that nickname. The Lions flanker is an imposing force of nature at full throttle. He will blast holes in the best defences and commit body and soul to every collision with a madcap, reckless intensity.
