Ahead of this weekend's Premier League action, Sportsmail will be providing you with all you need to know about every fixture, with team news, provisional squads, betting odds and Opta stats. Here is all the information you need for Manchester United's home clash with Aston Villa... Manchester United vs Aston Villa (Old Trafford) Team news. Manchester United. Striker Robin van Persie is out of Manchester United's Barclays Premier League match against Aston Villa with an ankle injury. Left-back Luke Shaw has recovered from a hamstring problem, but centre-back Chris Smalling is a big doubt due to illness. Robin van Persie scores against Leicester City earlier in the season but he is ruled out of the Aston Villa game. Defender Jonny Evans sits out the fourth match of his six-game ban for spitting at Newcastle striker Papiss Cisse. Provisional squad: De Gea, Lindegaard, Valdes, Shaw, Blackett, Rojo, Smalling, Jones, McNair, Rafael, Pereira, Young, Blind, Fellaini, Herrera, Valencia, Di Maria, Januzaj, Mata, Falcao, Rooney, Wilson. Aston Villa. Skipper Ron Vlaar could return for Aston Villa after finally shaking off a calf injury for the trip to Manchester United. The defender has been out since February and he will be joined in the squad by Joe Cole after a hamstring issue while Jores Okore (knee) is also fit. Ron Vlaar trains ahead of his expected return to the Aston Villa squad at Manchester United. Kieran Richardson and Philippe Senderos (both calf) are in training but could still miss out while there are doubts surrounding Aly Cissokho (groin) and Nathan Baker (knee) and United loanee Tom Cleverley is ineligible. Provisional squad: Guzan, Given, Hutton, Lowton, Okore, Vlaar, Clark, Cissokho, Kinsella, Delph, Sinclair, Gil, Westwood, Sanchez, Grealish, Cole, N'Zogbia, Agbonlahor, Benteke, Weimann. Kick-off: Saturday, 3pm. Odds (subject to change):. Manchester United 3/10. Draw 4/1. Aston Villa 9/1. Referee: Roger East. Managers: Louis van Gaal (Manchester United), Tim Sherwood (Aston Villa) Head-to-head league record: Manchester United wins 82, draws 38, Aston Villa wins 43. Key match stats (supplied by Opta) Manchester United have 31 Premier League wins against Aston Villa, the joint-most of any team against any opponent in the history of the competition (along with Man Utd v Everton). Aston Villa have won just one of the last 38 Premier League games against Manchester United (L27 D10 W1). Wayne Rooney has scored 12 goals against Aston Villa, his joint-highest tally against any opponent in Premier League history along with Newcastle United. Aston Villa are the only side in the Premier League this season yet to see a substitute score or assist a single one of their goals. Radamel Falcao scored Manchester United's equaliser in their 1-1 draw at Aston Villa in December. Rooney has scored eight goals in his last six Premier League games at Old Trafford against the Villans, netting four braces. Villa have seen six players sent off in the Premier League this season; two more than they had in any previous Premier League campaign. Rooney has scored 95 goals at Old Trafford, only Alan Shearer with 97 at St James Park (two for Blackburn) and Thierry Henry with 114 at Highbury have scored more goals on one single ground in Premier League history. The Red Devils have won 12 of their last 14 Premier League matches at Old Trafford (D1 L1). On just eight occasions this season have a side used two or more players that are under 20 in a Premier League game – seven of these have been by Manchester United (Arsenal the other). Aston Villa have scored just two goals in the final half an hour in the Premier League this season – Man Utd have scored more in the 90th minute or later (3).
