John Carver says he will use a whip if he has to in a bid to motivate his Newcastle players ahead of Sunday’s Tyne-Wear derby at the Stadium of Light. The Magpies have lost the last four matches against their North-East rivals and head coach Carver – who was assistant to Alan Pardew during that wretched run – admits that Sunderland wanted victory more than United on those occasions. ‘In the last four games Sunderland have out-worked us - and that's not a good stat to have,’ he said. John Carver says he will 'whip' his players to make sure they're motivated to beat Sunderland on Sunday. Dick Advocaat will take charge of his second game as boss and will want to keep Sunderland's record going. ‘I'll be making sure that doesn't happen again and I'll be using a whip to make sure we don't get out-worked.’ There is a suggestion that Newcastle will struggle for motivation given the comfort of their mid-table position compared to the Black Cats, who are fighting for Premier League survival. But Carver said: ‘I disagree, we’ve got everything to play for. That’s not just because of our respective league positions, we've lost the last four derbies and drawn the previous one. Moussa Sissoko (left) will captain Newcastle but he's been poor in his previous appearances in the derby. Newcastle players warm up during a training session at St. James' Park as they prepare for Sunderland. ‘We've got an awful lot to prove. I shouldn't have to motivate players to play in a Premier League match. This is a big occasion.' He added: ‘A lot of people out there say that because we've got a lot of foreign players they don't know what the game means, but that's an easy excuse. ‘With the staff we've got here we drum it into them every single day. You have to cope with the heat of the derby, it can make you or break you.’ Massadio Haidara's knee injury will keep him out of action for the rest of the Premier League campaign. Mehdi Abeid (centre) will be included in the squad and could feature at the Stadium of Light on Sunday. Jack Colback (left) will be in for a hostile reception while Siem de Jong is still unavailable through injury. Tim Krul returned from international duty unscathed and will play in goal for the North-East derby. Suspended captain Fabricio Coloccini (left) leads the team in the warm-up at St.James' Park. The Newcastle players will be looking to end the run of four successive defeats against Sunderland. Emmanuel Riviere (left) and Jonas Gutierrez compete for possession during Friday's training session. Newcastle will be skippered by France midfielder Moussa Sissoko, who has disappointed in the derby fixtures of late. And Carver said: ‘It'll be nice for Moussa to impose his presence. There's one or two lads in that dressing room who need a good game in the derby because they've not done in the past. ‘If we get enough payers imposing themselves on the game then we have a good chance of winning it.’ Meanwhile, Carver confirmed that defender Massadio Haidara will miss the rest of the season following knee surgery but Mehdi Abeid is expected to be in the squad. Advocaat with coach Paul Bracewell  during a Sunderland training session at the Academy of Light. The Dutchman could join Gus Poyet and Paolo di Canio in beating Newcastle in their first attempts in charge. Will Buckley (left) during a pass and move session as Sunderland prepare for Sunday's North-East derby. Lee Cattermole (left) and Jermain Defoe will want to keep their sides record against Newcastle going. Defoe has possession in a game of keep ball at the Academy of Light in preparation for derby day. Jordi Gomez (left) and Jack Rodwell have been ever presents for Sunderland and could start on Sunday.
