David Moore, 25, went berserk with road rage after leaving his home only to immediately find himself nose-to-nose on a heavily congested street with Rafal Cegielka, 45, who was picking up his child. A driver punched a father on the school run then smashed up his car with a hockey stick in front of young children because he was having a 'bad day' and saw red, a court has heard. David Moore, 25, went berserk with road rage after leaving his home only to immediately find himself bumper-to-bumper on a heavily congested street with Rafal Cegielka, 45, who was picking up his child from St John's Primary School, in Burnley, Lancashire. Burnley Magistrates' Court heard that the pair had both wound down their car windows, when Moore then jumped out of his vehicle, and punched Mr Cegielka through his open car window. He then ripped away a fencing panel from a nearby garden and chased the victim's vehicle with it as he tried to drive off. Finally, he then armed himself with the hockey stick from his home, and shouted: 'I'll f***ing kill him' in the street, before running after Mr Cegielka again and smashing up his car while he was still in it. The court heard the force of the attack caused damage worth £500. Moore later told police police he had had a 'bad day' and 'his head was all over the place.' At Burnley magistrates court Moore admitted assault by beating, destroying £100 worth of fencing and damaging Mr Cegielka's car, on March 2. He was given 16 weeks in prison, suspended for two years and was ordered to attend the Resolve programme to address his violence and temper. he was also ordered to pay £650 compensation. Prosecutor Eddie Harrison told the court the incident occurred at 2.50pm on March 2, as the victim drove onto Brent Street, which is very narrow and came nose to nose with another vehicle. The cars then became level, going in different directions. Moore, who was at the wheel of the other vehicle, wound down his window and Mr Cegielka did the same, wondering what he was going to say. But Moore got out of his car, walked over and punched the victim in the face. He then grabbed Mr Cegielka's ignition keys and hurled them into the vehicle. Mr Harrison added: 'The complainant says the defendant was totally out of control and continued shouting and swearing. Burnley Magistrates' Court heard that the pair had both wound down their car windows to exchange words outside St John's Primary School, in Burnley, Lancashire (pictured), when Moore then jumped out of his car, and punched Mr Cegielka through his open car window. He then ripped away a fencing panel from a nearby garden and chased the victim's vehicle with it as he tried to drive off. 'He was frightened by this behaviour and started his engine and drove away. 'He could see the male following him and it's at this point that the defendant has gone to a fence at a house in the street, started pulling away the fence panel, snapped it off and run down the street after the vehicle with Mr Cegielka in it. He chased after the car, clearly trying to hit out at the vehicle.' The prosecutor said the victim had to drive round the block and come back to the school to collect his child, when he again saw Moore again. Moore went into his house, got the hockey stick, and then ran after Mr Cegielka's vehicle again, shouting: 'I'll f***ing kill him.' At Burnley magistrates court Moore admitted assault by beating, destroying £100 worth of fencing and damaging Mr Cegielka's car, on March 2. He was given 16 weeks in prison, suspended for two years and was ordered to attend the Resolve programme to address his violence and temper. he was also ordered to pay £650 compensation. Mr Harrison said: 'He ran off down the middle of the road after the car and the defendant has struck it, causing damage to the vehicle whilst the complainant was still in it. He says this incident was completely unprovoked. He says he was terrified by this incident.' Moore later claimed Mr Cegielka was giving him 's**t ' for facing the wrong way in the street because it was tight at school times. He admitted grabbing the victim through the car window and screaming at him, but said he didn't punch him. He said he had been angry and had seen red, but knew what he did was wrong. He told officers: 'I'm very sorry. I had a s**t day. My head was all over the place.' In mitigation his lawyer Graeme Tindall said:  'When he was interviewed, he was full and frank. He says he didn't punch him. He flicked his glasses off his face. The incident happened because of congestion around the school. He readily accepts he saw red. He accepts he has a short fuse and reacted wholly inappropriately. In the cold light of day, he conceded all the faults that he had on that occasion.' Moore declined to comment after the hearing. Mr Cegielka was unavailable for comment.
