A Cold War bunker built to accomodate civil servants in the event of a nuclear attack has been transformed into a stunning £3.5million luxury home. The property, in the leafy south east London suburb of Chislehurst, was designed and built especially for government officials as the Cold War intensified in 1951. The site was chosen because the wooden area surrounding the building afforded it secrecy and the house was built with five foot thick concrete walls. The Glass House in Chislehurst, which was formerly a secret Cold War bunker and has now been transformed and is up for sale for £3.5million. The house was first built as a place where government officials could sit out a nuclear winter but now has a stunning atrium and a magnificent glass staircase. However, the building fell into disrepair in the years following the end of the Cold War, but now it has been converted into a contemporary luxury home, complete with a swimming pool, a stunning atrium and a magnificent glass staircase. The property, known as the Glass House, has now been put on the market for £3.5million and also boasts five bedrooms, a stylish kitchen, games room and outside roof terrace. It took two years to totally renovate the property as workers were forced to carve windows and doors out of the formidable concrete walls. The property also boasts a swimming pool in the atrium of the building with a glass staircase the centrepiece as you enter the property. The glass roof, which has created a sun room on the top floor. It took two years to carry out the renovations to transform the building from a bunker to a luxury home. As well as a sun room, the house also has a roof terrace. Builders were forced to carve windows and doors out of five foot thick concrete to complete the transformation. Before its transformation the property was a Regional Control Centre, one of four in the London area, built for government officials in the event of a nuclear winter. It was fully equipped with showers, food and fuel stores and is only 20 minutes to London Birdge station by train. There was also a map room, dormitory and diesel generators, which powered the electrical, communication and filtration systems. Before its renovation the house was one of four Regional Control Centres, built for government officials in the event of a nuclear winter. The house boasts five bedrooms, one pictured, as well as a games room, drawing room, several bathrooms and a huge garden. The dining room in the Glass House. Previously the building housed a map room, dormitory and diesel generators, which powered the electrical, communication and filtration systems. The drawing room of the Glass House in Chislehurst. JDM Estate Agents who are marketing the property have described it as truly unique. Several features of the property's original purpose still remain with the new L-shaped shower room owing its unusual design to the fact it was the original blast-proof entrance to the bunker. Steven May, branch manager at JDM Estate Agents, who are marketing the property, said: 'This exceptional house is truly unique. 'It will appeal to those buyers looking for a contemporary luxury home with an interesting history.' Pictured before the transformation, the bunker had been left to ruin after it was abandoned shortly after the Cold War. It was only bought in 1998. The bunker had huge foundations and concrete walls with the site for the bunker chosen due to the surrounding wooden area, which afforded it a degree of secrecy.
