Ahead of this weekend's Premier League action, Sportsmail will be providing you with all you need to know about every fixture, with team news, provisional squads, betting odds and Opta stats. Here is all the information you need for Sunderland's home clash with Newcastle... Sunderland vs Newcastle United (Stadium of Light) Team news. Sunderland. Sunderland midfielder Lee Cattermole will return to the starting line-up for Sunday's derby clash with Newcastle. Head coach Dick Advocaat has confirmed that Cattermole will be back against the Magpies after serving a two-match ban for reaching 10 bookings for the season. Lee Cattermole trains with Sunderland on the Friday before the Wear-Tyne derby. However, Advocaat will be without experienced defender Wes Brown, who is facing up to a month on the sidelines with a knee problem, while midfielders Will Buckley (knee) and Emanuele Giaccherini (ankle) are still out. Provisional squad: Pantilimon, Mannone, Reveillere, Van Aanholt, Jones, O'Shea, Vergini, Coates, Cattermole, Bridcutt, Rodwell, Johnson, Larsson, Alvarez, Gomez, Agnew, Honeyman, Fletcher, Defoe, Wickham, Graham. Newcastle. Newcastle defender Massadio Haidara will miss Sunday's derby trip to Sunderland and will not play again this season after undergoing surgery. The full-back has undergone a procedure to remove a cyst from the knee which has forced him to sit out the last two games. Massadio Haidara has undergone knee surgery which will see him miss the rest of the season. Haidara will join fellow defenders Steven Taylor (achilles), Paul Dummett (knee) and midfielders Cheick Tiote (also knee) and Siem de Jong (collapsed lung) on the sidelines. Midfielder Mehdi Abeid could be involved after recovering from a thigh problem, but winger Rolando Aarons (hamstring) will not be risked and defender Fabricio Coloccini and striker Papiss Cisse continue their respective suspensions. Provisional squad: Krul, Elliot, Janmaat, Williamson, R.Taylor, Satka, Sterry, Abeid, Anita, Colback, Sissoko, Gouffran, Cabella, Ameobi, Obertan, Gutierrez, Kemen, Riviere, Perez, Armstrong. Kick-off: Sunday, 4pm - Sky Sports 1. Odds (subject to change):. Sunderland 8/5. Draw 21/10. Newcastle 9/5. Referee: Mike Dean. Managers: Dick Advocaat (Sunderland), John Carver (Newcastle) Head-to-head league record: Sunderland wins 45, draws 43, Newcastle wins 51. Key match stats (supplied by Opta) Sunderland are unbeaten in their last six Premier League games against Newcastle United (W4 D2), winning the last four. Newcastle have seen nine goals scored by substitutes in the Premier League this season; more than any other side. The Black Cats have won four successive league derbies against Newcastle United for the first time in their history. Adam Johnson has scored three goals and provided one assist in his last four Premier League appearances versus Newcastle United. Sunderland have won just two of their last 16 Premier League matches at the Stadium of Light (W2 D7 L7). Steven Taylor (centre) celebrates a goal by Ryan Taylor (right) during Newcastle's last victory over Sunderland which was a 1-0 win at the Stadium of Light in August 2011. The Black Cats have failed to score in four of their last five Premier League home matches. The Magpies have conceded a league-high nine goals in the final five minutes of Premier League games this season, including Adam Johnson’s 90th minute winner in the reverse fixture back in December. Those nine goals conceded in the final five minutes of PL games in 2014-15 have cost Newcastle United eight points. Sunderland have drawn seven games 0-0 in the Premier League this season – the record in a single PL campaign is nine (Sheffield United in 1993-94 and Leeds in 1996-97). The two players with the most yellow cards in the Premier League this season could meet in this match – Lee Cattermole and Jack Colback (10 yellows each).
