For residents of Celoron, N.Y., the statue of hometown icon Lucile Ball is no laughing matter and hasn't been for the past six years. In 2009 the town unveiled a statue of Ball with a face so unlike the beloved comedian that locals have reacted with shock and horror. The depiction is so unflattering a Facebook page called 'We Love Lucy! Get Rid of this Statue' has attracted more than 600 likes. Scroll down for video. For residents of Celoron, N.Y., say a statue of hometown icon Lucile Ball is 'monstrous' The statue is based on a famous moment from Ball's show 'I Love Lucy,' in which she pitches an intoxicating health tonic while drunk. Yahoo reports that the anonymous man behind the page says he's a 'big fan of Lucy's.' 'Lucille Ball was not only an amazing comedienne, but she was a stunning beauty. Her sense of humor only made her more beautiful,” he told the site. 'This statue looks nothing like the beautiful Lucy we all know. If for no other reason than that... the statue should go.' He added: 'I don’t think this can be repaired. Take a look at the beautiful statues Nick at Nite created for ‘Bewitched’ and ‘The Honeymooners’ and Bob Newhart… it needs to be something more like those.' Artist Dave Poulin has declined comment. It would cost an estimated $8,000 to $10,000 for Poulin to recast the statue, according to the Celoron Mayor Scott Schrecengost. While the organizer said he is a fan of Poulin's work, this time he failed to do his subject justice. Artist Dave Poulin has declined to comment on the controversy surrounding his work. 'I think it looks like a monster. That is just my opinion,' he told Yahoo. 'When you see it at night, it is frightening.' The statue depicts Ball during one of her most loved moments on the pioneering show 'I Love Lucy,' her intoxicated pitch for the Vitameatavegamin health tonic. The statue was the latest way the town has tried to honor its most famous resident, with the Jameston area already home to a Lucille Ball Desi Arnaz Museum & Center for Comedy.
