Southampton boss Ronald Koeman will wait for a more accurate date for Fraser Forster's return before deciding whether an additional goalkeeper must be signed in the summer. Forster underwent knee surgery after falling awkwardly in the 2-0 victory over Burnley a fortnight ago and estimates for his comeback have ranged from four to 12 months. Koeman is reluctant to give a more precise time frame for the England international and views Kelvin Davis as a capable deputy, although he admits he may be forced to bolster his goalkeeping options if Forster's recovery is delayed. Fraser Forster suffered a serious knee injury in Southampton's match with Burnley a couple of weeks ago. The England goalkeeper has undergone surgery but will certainly be out for several months. Manager Ronald Koeman would not be drawn on whether Southampton will sign a new keeper in the summer. 'Fraser is down, of course. I spoke to him last week,' Koeman said at his press conference ahead of Saturday's Barclays Premier League trip to Everton. 'The operation he had last week went okay, but he will be out for a long time - at least for this season. We have to wait to see how long he will be out for, it's difficult at this moment. 'Fraser is a fantastic goalkeeper. He was and is the number one for us. But as for every player you need good substitutes for each position. 'Kelvin Davis is a very experienced goalkeeper who played very well against Burnley. Koeman said he will wait for further updates on Forster's condition before making the decision. Kelvin Davis will deputise for Forster until the end of the season. The Saints still retain an outside chance of making the top four and reaching the Champions League. April 4 Everton (A) April 11 Hull City (H) April 18 Stoke City (A) April 25 Tottenham Hotspur (H) May 2 Sunderland (A) May 9 Leicester City (A) May 16 Aston Villa (H) May 24 Manchester City (A) 'He made some fantastic saves and has a lot of experience, which is important for our last eight games of the season. 'We have to make a decision on the goalkeepers at the end of the season and if Fraser is out for a longer time, a new goalkeeper is an option.' Striker Jay Rodriguez has been missing for a year to rehabilitate his own knee complaint and Koeman has revealed that he could be back before the end of the season. 'Jay has been training with the group and should be ready to play in four or five weeks,' Koeman said. Midfielder Steven Davis is a doubt to face Everton because of a groin injury he sustained on international duty for Northern Ireland.
