A sprawling rural estate - complete with a Grade II-listed manor house and five cottages - is on the market for £6million. Set in 200 acres of land near Bridgnorth, Shropshire, the Chyknell Hall Estate also boasts a swimming pool, tennis court, stables - and even its own cricket green. Its centrepiece, the 11-bedroom Chyknell Hall, was built in 1814 and has only changed hands twice since. It is thought the Regency home could now attract A-list buyers as the secluded grounds offer residents complete privacy. Sprawling: Chyknell Hall Estate, which comes complete with a Grade II-listed house (pictured) and five cottages, is on the market for £6million. Grand: A sumptuous sitting room in the nine-bedroom Chyknell Hall, which was built in 1814 and has only changed hands twice since. Outdoor living: The property also boasts a large outdoor swimming pool and pool house (pictured), library, wine cellar and billiard room. Sports day: The current owner installed a cricket green, pictured, on the estate, and bought all the maintanence equipment needed. The owner will also be set up for entertaining with a wine cellar, four-oven Aga, loggia, library and billiard room. And a number of compartment gardens means guests will never be bored by the same view. The estate, described as the 'pinnicle of the residential tree', offers 57 acres of woodland and more than 500 acres of adjoining sporting rights, including game shooting. The land also planning permission for five more properties, should the new owner wish to expand. The ownership of Chyknell Hall Estate can be traced back to medieval times and this is only the third time in its history it has been on the market. It remained in the same family for generations before it was sold to a family in the 1930s. The current owners bought it four years ago. The estate is now being sold by estate agents Knight Frank for offers over £6million. Clive Hopkins, head of estates at Knight Frank, said: 'This estate is a package that ticks most boxes. 'You've got a listed Regency house that has been refurbished to a high standard but kept traditional features, set in some wonderful compartmentalised gardens which means as you walk round the house you get a different type of garden depending on what window you look out. Bright and airy: The Regency home has been refurbished to a high standard, but has kept original features. Above, one of the dining areas. Grand hallway: The ownership of Chyknell Hall Estate can be traced to medieval times and this is only the third time it has been on the market. Opulent: A roll-top bathtub takes centre stage in one of the 10 bathrooms in Chyknell Hall, which also boasts 11 bedrooms. Secluded: The sprawling manor, pictured, is set in traditional parkland which has no footpaths through it - offering complete privacy. 'That's then set in traditional parkland which is very private and secluded. There's no rights of way or footpaths through it, which is very rare for a house of that age. 'Rights of way originated from footpaths being made for staff working in a big country house to get back to their village so it's very rare for a house of this stature not to have a path. 'It's a really big draw in this day and age, owners want privacy but don't want to be too remote. 'This estate has no road noise, no light pollution and no pylons. It's a package which is very rarely found and is highly sought after. 'It would suit someone looking to buy the next stage of house, an estate like Chyknell is the pinnacle of the residential tree. 'The current owners are only moving because they have found an estate with more land. He is very keen on his cricket and put a cricket pitch in here so he could get his friends round for a game. It's not quite a Lord's, but it's a very high standard, he bought all the equipment, rollers and things. 'With this estate you get a lot of bricks and mortar for your money. Not many estates like this come up and when they do they are highly sought after.' Rural retreat: There are a number of smaller properties on the grounds, including three cottages housed in the red-brick block pictured above. Picturesque: The tennis court on the Chyknell House Estate, which offers residents no road noise, no light pollution and no pylons. Beautiful: There are compartment gardens on the estate, which means residents and guests will never be bored of the view outside. Elegant: The land also planning permission for five more properties, should the new owner wish to expand. Above, the estate's swimming pool.
