Vincent Kompany believes that if Manchester City are able to pick up a valuable three points away to rivals Manchester United, then they can help 'rectify' a disappointing season. Manuel Pellegrini's side were given a torrid time by Crystal Palace on Monday night, as their Premier League title hopes were all but dashed and a place in the top two is all they have left to fight for. The City captain admits that the derby game is crucial and believes being the underdogs suits his side. Vincent Kompany (left) believes that a win against rivals Manchester United will help rectify their season. Manuel Pellegrini is under pressure after a disappointing season and could be replaced in the summer. He said: 'A derby is a derby. It doesn't matter what place you are in the league, it's a derby. If anything, it's a good moment to go into a derby. I guess the momentum is a little bit with our neighbours at the moment, but it's the perfect place for us to go and try to rectify what we've had.' With speculation surrounding their manager Pellegrini, it remains to be seen if he'll still be in charge in the summer but Kompany says that a strong finish will be key for them next season. 'My only concern is we get back to our best form,' he added. 'I think it's our general form that we have to improve. I've learnt from the past seasons as well that finishing a season strongly can have an impact on your next season as well. In some funny way, it wasn't even a bad game [against Palace]. Glenn Murray terrorised the Manchester City defence and opened the scoring despite being offside. Kompany and his team-mates talk to referee Michael Oliver after the clearly offside goal was awarded. 'We are demanding with ourselves because we have to win, but you guys saw it. Did they have a shot on goal except for set-pieces? They are definitely a solid team. They are definitely a team who knows how to defend. 'They had a game plan so credit to them but, for us, it wasn't a bad game in comparison with other games that we might have lost. It has a bit of a different feel to it maybe than the result at Burnley. But a team like us needs results.'
