The crew of a replica pirate schooner were forced to abandon ship after their vessel lost power in rough seas off the coast of Maine. Nine members of the Liana's Ransom were scooped up by Coast Guard life boats on Tuesday, leaving the Canadian charter ship adrift 30 miles east of Portland, Coast Guard officials said. The tall ship reported having issues with the engines around 12.35 a.m. on Monday, and said the sails had become wrapped around the mast. Scroll down for video. Mid-sea rescue: Coast Guard life boats facilitated a rescue of crew members from the Liana's Ransom, who had to leap from the replica schooner. Two lifeboat crews were dispatched from Gloucester, Massachusetts, to try and tow the vessel to shore, but 10-foot swells caused a tow line to break. The crew was ordered to put on immersion suits and abandon the schooner, according to a press release from the Coast Guard. In a video of the rescue, a man in a jacket successfully makes the jump from the Liana's Ransom to the lifeboat as the two ships pitch in the rough seas. CBS reports crew member Luke Arbuckle came up short while attempting to make the jump to the Coast Guard ship. 'Apparently the ship separated just as I jumped over, and I ended up in the water,' Arbuckle said. Arbuckle's forehead struck the side of the boat while jumping, and he was rescued and transported by a Coast Guard helicopter to the hospital, where he was treated and later released. Safe and sound: The crew was reportedly dehydrated and seasick after being caught in choppy weather early Monday morning. Pulled out: Crew member Luke Arbuckle shorted the jump as the two boats tilted away from each other and struck his head against the boat before being airlifted to the hospital. Ahoy: The 85-foot-long ship was on its way to St Maarten in the Caribbean with nine crew members on its first voyage of the season. The 24-year-old captain of the Liana's Ransom, Ryan Tilley, was the last crew member to depart the drifting ship, his father, Joseph Tilley, wrote on the ship's Facebook page. 'Seeing the ship crippled, damaged and left floating there as we motored away with the Coast Guard was probably one of the worst moments of my life, but you have to put lives first,' Ryan told WCVB. The boat was towed to  Kittery Point Yacht Yard in Eliot, Massachusetts, on Tuesday evening where it will be repaired. The ship's website states the vessel was on its way to St Maarten, which was to be its new home port, when it lost engine power. The schooner, which has a 70-passenger capacity, was built to resemble ships used by privateers and pirates in the 1700s and is equipped with replica black powder cannons, according to the site.
