Everyone is watching Valencia’s 19-year-old left back Jose Luis Gaya with Manchester City, Arsenal and Chelsea hoping to snatch him from under Real Madrid’s nose this summer. Sportsmail's Pete Jenson takes a look at the Spain under 21 defender. Why are English clubs so keen? His buy-out clause is currently set at £13.5m. When you consider that Luke Shaw – of a similar age and potential – cost £27m it would be silly not to be interested; although there would be also be reservations about his suitability to the Premier League. Jose Luis Gaya (right) in action for Valencia during a La Liga match with Sevilla earlier this season. Reservations? He flies forward very much in the style of Jordi Alba and Juan Bernat. But those two left-backs who came before him at Valencia are in sides that allow them to play at times as auxiliary wingers – one at Barca and the other for Pep Guardiola at Bayern. There would be more defensive duties in England and he would be tested in the air. He has plenty of spring and good technique but at just 5ft 7ins it is not his strong point. Basically, you’re saying he can’t defend…. No, not at all. He is lightning fast and that enables him to recover position very quickly as well as correct his own, or his team-mates’ mistakes. He is also tenacious in the tackle – and aggressive enough to come out on top against bigger players. And he is 19 so a coach such as Mourinho would be able to improve him defensively. But what is indisputable is that his natural inclination is to attack. Gaya is an attack-minded left-back who likes to get forward at every opportunity. And he is very effective going forward? Much like the aforementioned Bernat and Alba, and Liverpool’s Alberto Moreno, he grew up playing as a winger before gradually been moved back to full-back. He’s not just an overlapper, he’s very good off of both feet and can make runs inside to play through-balls or shoot. He also played as central striker before being moved wide and as an 11-year-old whose idol was David Villa, he scored 60 goals one season in Valencia’s academy. Spain already seem to be well-stocked at left-back so will he make it to the senior first team? He has represented his country at every level since under-16s and has tended to benefit every time Juan Bernat has moved up an age category, stepping into his place. He is currently first choice for the Under-21s. Of course at senior level everyone stops moving up and as good as he is it will be hard for him to shift Alba and Bernat ahead of France 2016. Gaya slides in on Atletico Madrid midfielder Arda Turan during last month's match in Madrid. Does he want to leave Valencia? He has supported the club all his life. Hour-long trips from his home in Alicante to train with them since age 11 have helped ingrain that affection but there is a reason why he has still not signed a new deal that would increase that £13m buy-out clause. If the offer is right and from the right club then he is ambitious and he will go. Will he come to England? Valencia would rather do business with an English club than Real Madrid. But if the buy-out clause is met then there is little the club can do about deciding where the player goes. He’s 20 in May and staying in Spain will be appealing. At Madrid he will be just three hours away from his family and friends on the East coast. He will want some guarantees at Madrid however. Marcelo is first choice at the moment so how many games will he actually play? A club like Arsenal could come in and promise far more first-team football which might sway him but Madrid are favourites. Gaya, pictured here at the 2013 Under 20 World Cup, has represented Spain up to under 21 standard. Gaya (left) talks to team-mate Federico Vico during an under 19 international against Germany. Real Madrid bought Danillo this week and now they want Gaya. And they already have Dani Carvajal and Mareclo. Are they building a team of full-backs? Reserve full-backs Alvaro Arbeloa and Fabio Coentrao have been identified as two of the weaknesses of the squad. They want Danillo and Carvajal contesting the right back position next season, and Gaya and Marcelo the left-back spot. Coentrao and Arebeloa will both be sold in the summer. There is also a Fifa investigation into their signing of under-age youngsters currently ongoing. With a potential transfer ban hanging over them they want to cover every gap in their squad.
