Celtic have hit out at the SFA over ticket prices for their Scottish Cup semi-final against Inverness later this month at Hampden. The game's governing body has already come under fire from Caley Thistle fans for scheduling the match for 12.15pm on Sunday, April 18 - before the first trains from Inverness arrive in Glasgow. Now the Parkhead club have made their feeling known after ticket prices were set at £23 for the North and South stands, with the East Stand being £15 for adults and £5 for concessions. Celtic have complained to the SFA over ticket prices for their Scottish Cup semi-final at Hampden this month. In a statement, they said: 'Celtic Football Club is extremely disappointed with the ticket pricing for our forthcoming Scottish Cup semi-final match against Inverness Caledonian Thistle. Celtic argued strongly that the pricing for North Stand tickets should be reviewed and lowered, to be brought closer to prices for other parts of the stadium. 'As in previous years, due to Celtic supporters being in the vast majority, a huge number of our supporters will be required to pay a ticket price which we believe is too high. 'Clearly, we feel that SFA and other Clubs involved should have taken a common sense approach to this matter in the interests of fairness for our supporters and to ensure attendances at the matches are as high as possible.' The SFA responded: 'The Scottish FA notes Celtic's statement on ticket pricing for the forthcoming William Hill Scottish Cup semi-finals and can clarify the following: All four participating clubs were consulted on ticket pricing for the semi-finals; the semi-final ticket prices have been unchanged for the past four years; the Scottish Cup semi-final gate, broadcast and advertising revenues for both matches are aggregated and distributed evenly to the competing teams, minus a 10-per-cent levy.' Celtic manager Ronny Deila prepares his side for their upcoming SPL clash with St Mirren on Friday. Celtic's Jason Denayer (left) and Virgil van Djik (centre) in action during a training session at Lennoxtown.
