Stephen Curry scored 27 points and Klay Thompson had 25 as the Golden State Warriors held off the Los Angeles Clippers 110-106 on Tuesday for their 10th consecutive victory. David Lee added 17 points for the Warriors, who had lost four in a row at Staples Center. The Clippers blew a 17-point lead and had their seven-game winning streak broken. Blake Griffin had 40 points and 12 rebounds, Chris Paul added 27 points and nine assists, and J.J. Redick scored 14. Golden State Warriors' Stephen Curry reacts after making a three-pointer against the Los Angeles Clippers. Drake was courtside at the Staples Center to watch the LA Clippers' home match. Paul's layup drew the Clippers to 106-104 with 12 seconds left, but he was called for a backcourt violation taking an inbounds pass from DeAndre Jordan with nine seconds left. Thompson and Curry combined for four straight free-throws to close out the win for the Pacific Division champions. Elsewhere, Brooklyn beat Indiana to reclaim sole possession of the eighth and final play-off spot in the Eastern Conference with its season-high fourth straight victory. Brook Lopez had 24 points and 11 rebounds and Joe Johnson added 21 points, including five straight after the Pacers got within three with about two minutes left. The Nets moved back ahead of Boston and dealt a blow to the Pacers, who fell 1.5 games behind Brooklyn for the final play-off spot. They visit the Celtics on Wednesday. San Antonio Spurs guard Tony Parker scored 16 points against Miami Heat in his 1,000th NBA game. The East-leading Atlanta Hawks, meanwhile, stumbled on the road, losing to Detroit 105-95. Andre Drummond had 22 points and 13 rebounds for the Pistons, who have won five of six. Thabo Sefolosha scored 19 points for the Hawks, who have dropped two of three. In Miami, Tony Parker scored 16 points in his 1,000th NBA game and Kawhi Leonard had 22 to lead San Antonio past the Heat 95-81. San Antonio stayed No 6 in the West, and could clinch a play-off berth on Wednesday in Orlando. The Heat remained in the No 7 spot in the Eastern Conference but now are two losses behind Milwaukee and only a half-game up on Brooklyn.
