Martin Guptill has been recalled to the New Zealand Test squad for their upcoming two-match series against England next month. Guptill, who smashed 237 against the West Indies in the recent World Cup has not represented the Black Caps at Test level since the 2013 tour of England. Paceman Matt Henry who played against South Africa in the semis and in a losing team against Australia in the final, has been called up to the Test squad for the first time. The 23-year-old has only played 20 first class matches. Martin Guptill has been recalled to New Zealand Test squad for their two-match series with England. Guptill of New Zealand pulls the ball away for six runs during the 2015 ICC Cricket World Cup match. 'This is a stable, established Test side but there will be opportunities for contenders,' coach and selector Mike Hesson told the New Zealand Cricket website. New Zealand Test Squad: McCullum (captain), Anderson, Boult, Bracewell, Craig, Guptill, Henry, Latham, Ronchi, Rutherford, Southee, Taylor, Wagner, Watling, Williamson. One day international and T20 squad: B McCullum (captain), Anderson, Boult, Elliott, Guptill, Henry, Latham, McClenaghan, N McCullum, Milne, Ronchi, Santner, Southee, Taylor, Williamson. 'Martin's a classically-styled batsman and there's really no reason why he can't be as influential in the longer game as he is in the short. 'It's another step up for Matt but we've been impressed by the maturity and skill-set he's already shown in the ODI format.' James Neesham will miss the tour because of a hamstring injury while New Zealand will also be without Daniel Vettori after he retired following New Zealand's seven wicket loss to Australia. Mitchell Santner is the only uncapped player in the one day international and T20 squads. 'Mitchell brings to the table some all-round cover,' said Hesson whose side will play five 50 over games and one T20 match against England. 'We're hoping he can take his opportunities and continue the excellent progress he's been making over recent seasons.' New Zealand will also be without Daniel Vettori after he retired following their seven wicket loss to Australia.
