Host commentator. So that's it from the Sportsmail live coverage of Real Madrid versus Granada. Goals from Cristiano Ronaldo (five, yes, five), Karim Benzema (two), Gareth Bale and a Diego Mainz own goal secure a huge win. Robert Ibanez scored Granada's consolation. Thanks for following our coverage. If you enjoyed it, why not follow our minute-by-minute updates of Tottenham Hotspur's trip to Burnley back in the Barclays Premier League. Our live coverage has started HERE. That's it at the Bernabeu. Final score, Real Madrid 9-1 Granada. The biggest win of the La Liga season and what a way for the home side to get back to winning ways after El Clasico! 90 mins: A fifth for Ronaldo. He heads in at the far post from Modric's cross. Real Madrid have managed half the amount of goals Granada have scored in total all season, before today, in just this game! 88 mins: Good stop by the Spanish keeper as he denies Granada a second goal, saving at his near post. 83 mins: It's a tough job stopping Ronaldo, but you don't help yourself when you put the ball in your own net. Luka Modric crosses in, with the Portuguese forward at the far post but the ball doesn't even reach him. Diego Mainz puts his past his own goalkeeper. That's eight. 82 mins: Hernandez is brought down for a foul and Ronaldo and Bale shape up to take the subsequent free-kick from 25 yards. The Portuguese forward takes it and hits it through the wall but well wide. 74 mins: The very definition of a consolation. Robert Ibanez breaks through, Ramos lets him cut inside and Casillas can't quite stop it from finding the net. Not a perfect afternoon for Real Madrid. 72 mins: Useless, this bloke, isn't he? Ronaldo can't manage a fifth goal as he stretches to reach Jese's cross but sends the ball wide of the goal. 70 mins: No let-up here, Bale plays the ball into Ronaldo but it gets stuck under his feet and his finish is wide of the left-hand post. 68 mins: A great cross from Marcelo finds Manchester United loan star Hernandez but it ends up in the goalkeeper's hands. 66 mins: He scored with a free-kick for Wales during the international break and Gareth Bale almost repeats the trick here. His curling effort from the right-hand side hits Oier Olazabal's side netting. 61 mins: An excellent return to the side for James Rodriguez ends as he is replaced by Jese. Two-goal Karim Benzema is replaced by Javier Hernandez too. 56 mins: 7-0. That's S-E-V-E-N. Benzema finds the net again. His shot is deflected into the net by the defender but they all count. Embarrassing for Granada. Real Madrid are ruthless and there could be more with 34 minutes to go. 54 mins: Bale's had criticism for not passing to Ronaldo recently, but he's laid a goal on a plate for the four-goal hero here. Granada so poor in defending as the Welsh winger latches on to a ball played over the top, he knocks it across goal to give Ronaldo an open net to finish into. It looks like he's hurt himself in a collision with the goal but should be alright. 52 mins: And it's five! The corner is put in by Rodriguez, Benzema is allowed to control it on his chest inside the box and he strikes a beauty into the top corner of the net. Awful defending on. Real's BBC have come under some stick of late but they've all scored here. Ronaldo gets us started at the Bernabeu. Can he get even more goals in this second half? 15 minute break at the Bernabeu. 4-0 at the half-time whistle and Ronaldo has been at his rampant best. Cutting Barcelona's La Liga lead is a formality for Real. 44 mins: That's more like it from the visitors. Youssef El-Arabi hammers in a shot from outside the area but it cannons off the crossbar and down on to the line. Definitely not over, so no controversy, but Granada have come close. 43 mins: Have Granada given up? Ronaldo turns provider this time, crossing from the right-hand side into Benzema but the keeper gathers. 38 mins: This is getting silly now. it's a landslide. Ronaldo brings the ball forward and he blasts it past the goalkeeper from the edge of the box. It's an eight minute hat-trick for the Ballon d'Or winner and Real Madrid are out of sight. 36 mins: Ronaldo plays the ball out to Marcelo, it's crossed in and the goalkeeper can't deal with it, palming it out to the feet of Ronaldo. Is there anyone worse to put the ball on a plate for? The former Manchester United man smashes the ball in and it's 3-0. He's top scorer in Spain now ahead of Messi. 34 mins: Ronaldo is now level on goals for the season with Lionel Messi. 32 this campaign. It's relentless from Real Madrid at the minute but Granada stop them with plenty of bodies back. Plenty more goals to come here at a sunny Santiago Bernabeu. 30 mins: That's game over. Ronaldo makes it 2-0. Benzema makes a mess of a cross but the Granada defence are all over the place. It comes out to James Rodriguez who pulls off a great flick to gift Ronaldo the ball and he finishes confidently. 25 mins: Gareth Bale breaks the deadlock and gives Real Madrid the lead! The Welshman is played in by a brilliant pass from Toni Kroos, he does well to round the goalkeeper and just keeps it in to finish off the move and give his side the lead. 22 mins: How has Alvaro Arbeloa not scored? Real's full backs are both up in the opposition half and Marcelo whips a dangerous cross into the penalty area from the right. Arbeloa meets his tantalising ball but somehow his effort goes wide. On target and it was almost certain to be a goal. Poor. 18 mins: Real have been on top but it's the opposition who come close here. It's a great chance for Granada as Sergio Ramos refuses to close down Robert Ibanez after a terrible throw from Iker Casillas but luckily for the Real Madrid pair, the Granada man drags his shot inches wide. 16 mins: The pressure is on Granada now, Real have two corners in a row. Taken by Rodriguez and Toni Kroos but both set-pieces come to nothing. 13 mins: Lovely stepover from Cristiano Ronaldo on the left-hand side of the box and he fires in a shot early that leaves the goalkeeper fooled. Unluckily for him it hits the side netting. Real Madrid are finding their feet. 10 mins: Big error by Juan Carlos, he misses a long ball over the top ahead of his goalkeeper and Gareth Bale is ready to pounce. The Welshman unfortunately nips the ball over the bar between the two Granada men but Real are getting closer. 8 mins: Excellent cross from James Rodriguez, looking sharp despite just returning to the first team. It finds Benzema at the back post and he slides in to finish but his shot is straight at the goalkeeper. Real's first chance. Granada have every player inside their own half, gives you an impression of how this one is going to go... 6 mins: Granada manager Abel Resino must have been working hard on that high line this week, Karim Benzema is caught offside now, Real struggling to find a way through in the opening minutes despite dominating possession. 4 mins: Cristiano Ronaldo has just been ruled offside as Real Madrid try to start an attack. The Granada back four of Foulquier, Babin, Mainz and Carlos are playing a fairly high line so let's wait and see if Real can catch them out. Here we go as Real Madrid look to take the lead at the top of La Liga. Granada get us going. Not long until we kick off now, Gareth Bale, Cristiano Ronaldo and co are almost ready. Granada are second-bottom of La Liga so this game should represent a great opportunity for them to reel in Barcelona before they play Celta Vigo later this evening. The Andalusian side have lost three of their last five games but Real's form is similarly poor, matching their losses over the same period. Marca's front page yesterday spoke of how Real want to win their last 10 games to take the La Liga title. Can they start on that road today? Granada go with 4-2-3-1. Pretty attacking team for a trip to the Bernabeu. Will their bravery pay off? Olazabal; Foulquier, Babin, Mainz, Carlos; Rico, Iturra; Ibanez, Rochina, Candeias; El Arabi. Carlo Ancelotti had confirmed that James Rodriguez would be back in the Real Madrid side during his press conference on Saturday, and his words ring true. The Colombian playmaker starts in place of Isco, who is suspended. Alvaro Arbeloa comes in for Dani Carvajal and Raphael Varane is in for the injured Pepe. Here's the Real Madrid team for this morning's game: Casillas; Arbeloa, Ramos, Varane, Marcelo; Modric, Kroos; Bale, Rodriguez, Ronaldo; Benzema. Cristiano Ronaldo scored five, including a seven-minute hat-trick, as Real Madrid beat sorry Granada 9-1. Gareth Bale broke the deadlock and Carlo Ancelotti’s team were 4-0 up before half time as they put memories of their Clasico defeat to Barcelona a fortnight ago behind them. The huge gulf in class showed in the midday sunshine at the Bernabeu right from minute 20 when Bale bullied Diego Mainz off the ball and charged through on goal. He dribbled around flailing Granada keeper Oier Olazabal before nudging the ball over the line for 1-0.
