Dundee United have hit back at fierce criticism of the board's performance by two leading supporters' groups. Arabtrust and the Federation of Dundee United Supporters Clubs say they are 'shocked' that 25 per cent of £6.3million worth of transfer fees for Ryan Gauld, Andrew Robertson, Stuart Armstrong and Gary Mackay-Steven were paid in commission to unnamed parties. The supporters groups also disputed chairman Stephen Thompson's alleged level of investment in the club. The Dundee United board have hit back at criticism from supporters by pointing to their on-field success. The Tannadice club - already under fire for selling Armstrong and Mackay-Steven to Celtic six weeks before their League Cup final defeat to the Scottish champions - responded by defending their record in a statement. It read: 'All supporters can be assured that the board will continue to implement its professional and comprehensive strategy for the football club. 'This strategy and the related actions of the chairman and board of directors have delivered progress both on and off field. 'On the field the club has reached back-to-back domestic cup finals for the first time in 29 years, qualified for European competition in three of the last four years, finished in the Premiership top six in every one of the last seven years and won the Scottish Cup in 2010. 'The current management team and players are also sitting fourth in the Premiership this season with sights firmly set on securing a European qualification place.' The supporters' joint statement expressed concern over the levels of club debts, saying: 'Despite the sales of the four players the board of DUFC does not believe that this is yet sufficient to pay all current remaining debt.' Defending their record on that point, the club statement responded: 'Off field the board has reduced overall debt, including Thompson family loans, from £5.2m in February 2014 to £2.6m while successfully extricating the club from all bank debt. The club debt is projected to be reduced to £1.4m by the end of this year. 'Supporters can rest assured that the board is comprised of individuals that are, without exception, Dundee United supporters. They bring with them a wealth of experience in business. 'At all times, the board acts to promote the success of Dundee United and will continue to do so.' Arabtrust and the Federation also voiced concerns that chairman Thompson was wary of bringing in external investors for fear of seeing his family's shareholding drop below 75 per cent. The most explosive allegation, however, is the claim concerning the commission paid to outside parties – none of whom are understood to be players, agents or other clubs. The supporters' joint statement added: 'We believe this figure to be in excess of £500k. This does not include payments to players, agents or other clubs. When all of these various payments are totalled, over 25 per cent of the £6.3m in fees received has not been kept in the club.' United last year announced that a recent debt settlement would see the Bank of Scotland collect a share of transfer fees received before the end of August 2015. A United spokesman said: 'We've been reluctantly drawn into this matter and have no wish to enter a war of words, but the £500,000 figure is an entirely fictitious amount based on an incorrect assumption. At no time was that figure provided to anyone, so it's surprising to see it in the public domain.' Some supporters were angered by the amount of commission that was paid from transfer fees received.
