England may be well on course to sealing their spot at Euro 2016 but it appears as if manager Roy Hodgson still does not know his best XI. Sportsmail's top team of reporters have submitted their starting line-ups for the finals in France, assuming everyone is fit of course. Let us know your England XIs by posting them in the comments section below. England manager Roy Hodgson pictured at the Juventus Stadium during Tuesday's friendly against Italy. MATT LAWTON. Hart; Clyne, Cahill, Jagielka, Baines; Henderson, Wilshere; Welbeck, Rooney, Sterling; Kane. Not perfect by any means but I think it’s important to keep Rooney in a more central position, in the No 10 role he is most comfortable in, behind the best striker at this moment in time. Right now it’s Kane but Sturridge and Welbeck certainly offer good alternatives. There’s pace in that team as well. No natural holding player? I’m not convinced Carrick is the way forward. Get the best players on the pitch. England captain Wayne Rooney (centre) looks to get a shot in at the Italian goal on Tuesday. IAN LADYMAN. Hart; Clyne, Cahill, Jagielka, Baines; Henderson, Wilshere; Welbeck, Rooney, Sterling; Sturridge. England’s defensive options remain their big problem so this is a team set up to score goals and win games by playing on the front foot. Luke Shaw hasn’t done enough yet to displace Baines while Henderson and Wilshere represent a holding duo at the base of the midfield that should provide security bit also the ability to get the team moving forwards when appropriate. Rooney is picked in this team in a central role while Sturridge gets the nod ahead of young pretenders such as Harry Kane simply on the back of experience. This is the first game of a major tournament after all. Daniel Sturridge (left) charges forward with the ball during last September's friendly against Norway. ROB DRAPER. Hart; Clyne, Cahill, Jones, Gibbs; Carrick; Henderson, Wilshere; Sterling, Rooney, Welbeck. No place for Daniel Sturridge at present and you might have to re-think if he's clear of injuries - but for the moment Rooney has to play up front. If England need a more attacking shape, Rooney can drop in and Sturridge come on for Wilshere or Henderson, but I'd be wary of starting that way, as England couldn't defend properly with two midfielders in Brazil. The back four doesn't convince but Jagielka and Baines struggled at the World Cup and Johnson is now out of the reckoning. England's Jordan Henderson in action against Italy at the Juventus Stadium on Tuesday night. MATT BARLOW. Hart; Clyne, Cahill, Jones, Baines; Henderson, Carrick, Milner; Sterling; Rooney, Welbeck. Not far off the team Hodgson picked against Lithuania on Friday. It's as good as we get at the moment. Wish it was stronger at the back, where perhaps Smalling and Bertrand can apply pressure. No place for Wilshere in a three-man midfield. Need mileage and ball-winning abilities to offset the luxury of Carrick in as a playmaker. Rooney and Welbeck on the basis they have delivered in international football but much will depend on Kane's second season and the fitness of Sturridge. Gary Cahill (left) tackles Lithuania's Saulius Mikoliunas during last Friday's Euro 2016 qualifier. SAMI MOKBEL. Hart; Clyne; Cahill, Jones, Gibbs; Henderson, Oxlade-Chamberlain; Welbeck, Rooney, Sterling; Kane. The two biggest calls here are Gibbs over Baines and Chamberlain instead of Wilshere. For me, the two selected will add more athleticism to the side without the loss of quality. There's certainly goals in this team, as well as pace. Europe beware! England left-back Kieran Gibbs (right) looks to run past Italian Alessandro Florenzi. JOE BERNSTEIN. Hart; Walker, Jones, Stones, Shaw; Carrick, Henderson; Sterling, Rooney, Young; Sturridge. It's ridiculous that Michael Carrick is only now getting the international recognition he deserves. He should have been a regular in the last two World Cups and will only be 34 at Euro 2016. With him and Rooney in the middle and lots of legs and energy around them, England should be able to play the quick and accurate tempo displayed by Liverpool in the last couple of years. Personally, I think that's the way to go rather than try and hit a big centre-forward like Harry Kane. Youngsters like John Stones and Luke Shaw will really emerge over the next 12 months. Michael Carrick (right) controls the ball as Roberto Soriano looks to make a challenge in Turin. RIATH AL-SAMARRAI. Hart; Clyne, Smalling, Cahill, Baines; Carrick, Wilshere; Oxlade-Chamberlain, Rooney, Sterling; Kane. The big unknown is Harry Kane's progress and whether he will do it all again next season. It's perhaps harsh on Daniel Sturridge, who has proven his effectiveness over greater time, but how can anyone currently bet against Kane? The big weakness remains at centre-half - neither man truly looks the part at the international level but Smalling has improved this season. At 25 he needs to improve further still. If Sterling's ego can process being on the left, where he has shown himself to be more than capable, then this could be a delightful attack. England's Harry Kane (right) leaves Italy's Giorgio Chiellini face down on the pitch during the friendly. MIKE KEEGAN. Hart; Clyne, Cahill, Jagielka, Baines; Henderson, Carrick, Barkley; Sterling, Rooney, Welbeck. Welbeck just gets the nod over Kane primarily for his pace and movement which is vital to England attacking at pace. If there is any chance John Terry can be lured back he walks in at the expense of Jagielka. Carrick must start and Barkley must cut down on giving the ball away in dangerous positions but offers more going forward than Fabian Delph. Baines gets one last chance to deliver on the international stage, ahead of Kieran Gibbs. Danny Welbeck (left) shoots during England's Euro 2016 qualifier against Lithuania at Wembley on Friday.
