Former Huddersfield centre Josh Griffin scored a try and kicked three goals as improving Salford secured back-to-back Super League wins with an 18-12 triumph at the John Smith's Stadium. Griffin and Ben Jones-Bishop scored tries in the first half, although Jack Hughes gave the Giants hope. Carl Forster's try and Griffin's penalty made the game safe, though, despite the prolific Aaron Murphy's try setting up a tense finish. Salford Red Devils secured a second win in a row with a 18-12 victory at Huddersfield. Salford made a fast start and Cory Paterson had a try ruled out on 18 minutes. A Rangi Chase kick-through was fumbled by a Giants player in the in-goal area and Paterson pounced but referee James Child had already ruled it a knock-on and given the Red Devils a drop out. The game was twice delayed early on when Kevin Locke for Salford and Huddersfield's Brett Ferres were carried off injured. Griffin opened the scoring on 21 minutes when he pounced on a mistake by Huddersfield's Jermaine McGillvary. The winger seemed set to grab a grubber kick into the left corner by Jones-Bishop - but when he slipped in the in-goal area Griffin was there to score. He failed to convert but was on target 10 minutes later after Jones-Bishop took advantage of more slack defending. Rangi Chase kicked through straight from a scrum and Jones-Bishop got to the ball first despite several Giants players being better placed. Lacklustre Huddersfield, seeking a fifth straight win, woke up after that and were back in the contest on 38 minutes. On-loan Wigan forward Hughes went over from Jamie Ellis' pass after good work by Eorl Crabtree. There was a flare-up on half-time when Crabtree and Weller Hauraki came to blows after the Kiwi made a heavy tackle on the England international. Salford extended their 10-6 half-time lead on 55 minutes when Forster grabbed his first try of the season. Griffin, the older brother of fellow former Huddersfield player Darrell, who was on the bench for this match, converted. Hauraki was put on report on 62 minutes for a bad tackle which left Giants full-back Scott Grix needing treatment. Murphy then went over in the right corner on 76 minutes for his fourth try in as many games. Brough added the extras to leave the home side a converted try away from a late victory. But soon after they were punished for interfering with play and Griffin kicked the resulting penalty. Solid defending, including forcing Huddersfield to play out a set of six around their own 10-metre line, helped Salford see the game out.
