Jonas Gutierrez was the surprise inclusion in the Newcastle side, coming in for his first start in 20 months. The Argentine has twice beaten testicular cancer and only returned as a substitute last month. But, in fairness to the 31-year-old, he was Newcastle’s best player - not that he had much competition. Jonas Gutierrez was not expected to start after twice surviving cancer, but was the visitors' best player. Gutierrez gets up to challenge Steven Fletcher during a good performance, but one that ended in defeat. History was on Dick Advocaat’s side. The last two Sunderland managers – Paolo Di Canio and Gus Poyet – both enjoyed Tyne-Wear victories in their second match in charge and the Dutchamn kept alive that quirk of footballing fate. So whoever is the new boss at the Stadium of Light next season can only hope the Magpies are game No 2. Sunderland's new manager won a derby in his second game in charge, just like his two predecssors. Newcastle suffered an injury scare during the warm-up when emergency centre-back Daryl Janmaat limped off towards the dressing-room, although he did start the game. United, though, had no recognised defenders on the bench. However, rumours that coach Dave Watson was set to start in the middle of the backline were probably wide of the mark. Daryl Janmaat's warm-up injury led to rumours of Dave Watson filling in, but the Dutchman recovered. John Carver hardly helped in sparing Jack Colback the gauntlet of hate from the home fans. The head coach started the former Sunderland midfielder at left-back, ensuring every time he took a throw-in supporters in the front row would vacate their seat and hiss insults in his ear. At left-back on the opposite flank was Patrick van Aanholt, formerly of Newcastle. However, a barely-memorable seven appearances in the Championship meant he avoided such scorn from the Toon Army. Jack Colback was not protected from the Sunderland fans' ire, positioned by John Carver at left back. Colback was returning to face his former club after departing to join rivals Newcastle last summer. Both sets of supporters were united in the 17th minute as they applauded as one in tribute of Newcastle fans John Alder and Liam Sweeney who were killed when flight MH17 was shot down above Ukraine last summer. Sunderland fans subsequently helped to raise nearly £33,000 in their memory and rivalries were forgotten during the minute-long tribute.
