The Premier League returns this weekend after the fourth interruption this season for international fixtures, leaving managers hoping their players have returned with a clean bill of health. The break can be both a blessing and a curse, potentially halting your momentum if results and confidence are positive, or halting your slide if all is not well. Premier League sides have already had to resume their season after international breaks in September, October and November 2014. Premier League leaders Chelsea have won all three of their matches following the international break. Everton lead the post-international Premier League table with three wins from three after the break. However six Premier League clubs are still chasing their first win after an international break this season, so who has been the best at managing this transition? Sportsmail examines this through a modified Premier League table that takes in only results immediately after international resumptions. Our alternative table makes nice reading for Toffees fans, with their side winning all three matches and keeping clean sheets against Aston Villa and West Brom. Champions-elect Chelsea are the only side to match this perfect record, though both of these teams have not faced a current top seven team across their post-international fixtures. Southampton and both Manchester clubs are the only other unbeaten sides though United did slip up in drawing 2-2 at home to West Brom. Manchester City have been relatively impressive, drawing 2-2 at the Emirates and most notably dispatching Champions League chasing Tottenham 4-1, who have an indifferent record. Moving further down and Liverpool have a significantly worse record following the international break than in overall form, suffering surprise defeats when visiting Crystal Palace and hosting Aston Villa. Moreover their only win came through an unconvincing 3-2 victory at Queens Park Rangers, secured only through a sensational second-half display by Raheem Sterling. Manchester United will be hoping to follow up their win against Liverpool by beating Aston Villa. Arsenal are awaiting their first Premier League win directly following an international break. Brendan Rodgers (right) will be hoping his side can pile more post-international misery on Arsenal. Saturday. Arsenal vs Liverpool. Everton vs Southampton. Leicester vs West Ham. Manchester United vs Aston Villa. Swansea vs Hull. West Brom vs QPR. Chelsea vs Stoke. Sunday. Burnley vs Tottenham. Sunderland vs Newcastle. Monday. Crystal Palace vs Manchester City. Both the Reds and Arsenal will want to change the vast discrepancies between their current league table positions and their positions in our alternative view, currently sitting in eighth and 13th respectively. The two Champions League sides meet on Saturday lunchtime as Arsenal chase a first win following an international break this season. The Gunners have been fortunate in having three home fixtures but have totally failed to capitalise on this, drawing 2-2 with Hull City and Manchester City, whilst losing 2-1 at the hands of Manchester United. Southampton have handed out two thrashings to sides in the North-East by picking up 8-0 and 4-0 wins over Sunderland and Newcastle respectively. However in this table the Toon still make the top six through narrow 1-0 wins over both QPR and Leicester. The Foxes have a notably improved position whilst keeping clean sheets against Sunderland and Stoke in their three post-international games, despite these being relatively rare across the season. Relegations strugglers QPR have lost all three of their post-international fixtures so far this season. This puts Nigel Pearson’s side comfortably nestled in mid-table, joined their relegation strugglers Burnley. Possibly benefitting from having fewer players occupied on international duty, both join a cluster of teams on four points. Stoke will also be concerned by their poor record, which includes 2-1 and 1-0 defeats when hosting relegation-threatened sides Burnley and Leicester City. Such results across an entire campaign may have seen them struggling to maintain mid-table stability under Mark Hughes. Hull City, Sunderland and West Brom are all winless, though the Black Cats did claim a respectable 2-2 draw at home to Tottenham. Swansea City and QPR are both pointless, though the Swans have had three games including difficult trips to Chelsea and Manchester City. Meanwhile the R’s have hosted Liverpool whilst suffering away defeats with scoring at both Newcastle and Manchester United – Chris Ramsey’s team will hope to change that trend when travelling to West Brom on Saturday.
