David Templeton has delivered a damning critique of the training-ground methods deployed at Rangers by Ally McCoist and Kenny McDowall. The Ibrox winger claimed Stuart McCall had brought a brand of coaching and tactical preparation he felt was lacking under the previous management. Templeton praised the impact the former Motherwell boss has made since his arrival on a short-term deal last month, with back-to-back wins having revived confidence ahead of Saturday's home meeting with Championship title-winners Hearts. Rangers winger David Templeton is full of praise for the impact of new boss Stuart McCall. Templeton says that McCall's training ground methods are superior to the previous management's. 'For me, it's a coaching thing,' said Templeton, assessing the changes under the new leadership. 'We're being coached more and, building up to games, we're working on different formations, which players are going to play, movements, all different stuff, like most teams probably do. 'For me, it has been great, every boy going into a game knows what they have to do, basically. 'The tempo of training, the intensity, everything has been right up and it has been really enjoyable actually, but tough. That's what we needed.' Asked if that was not the case beforehand, Templeton simply replied: 'No.' Pressed to expand, he added: 'I don't think we were being coached the right way. We weren't going into games working on the stuff I think we should have been working on, which we are doing now and that is showing with the results. 'We should probably still have won games that we didn't. But going into games knowing what you have to do does definitely help and I think that showed in the Hibs game two weeks ago. 'We changed the formation and shut out their midfield, their most creative part, and that showed with the result. They didn't create any chances - I don't think Cammy (Bell) had a save to make. That was just through working on things during the week.' Former boss McCoist was placed on garden leave last December with assistant McDowall becoming caretaker manager. He then stepped down when McCall and Kenny Black arrived. Despite his unflattering assessment, Templeton insisted he was not attacking the qualities of McCoist or McDowall. 'It's not that I think it's better coaching,' said Templeton. 'Every coach has a different style. 'The way we were going, we needed to work on things to get back to playing well and defending well. 'We were gifting too many goals and I think that was just through not working on the back four or back three, whatever we were playing. I don't think that he' s a bad coach or anything, just that since the manager has come in we've worked on stuff we had to work on.' Templeton has singled out the change in formation and new-found intensity as behind the improvement.
