There was no special treatment for Lewis Ferguson at Paul Nicholls’ yard on Thursday morning. The 18-year-old was mucking out the stables as usual, just a cut on the nose to show for the fall which has made him an internet sensation. Ferguson, whose double somersault horror fall from the favourite Merrion Square in the 4.20pm at Wincanton on Wednesday has been watched hundreds of thousands of times online. But he was back riding out and said he was undeterred from getting back in the sadal. ‘It was just a blur,’ he said, ‘I couldn’t work out what had happened until I got back to the weighing room and watched the replay. All the other jockeys asked me if I was alright and stuff, they all watched with me and looked away in horror. It’s about the most impressive fall I’ve seen. Jockey Lewis Ferguson, 18, who survived a spectacular fall from Merrion Square shows off the cut on his nose. Ferguson, whose double somersault horror fall has been watched by hundreds of thousands online. The 18-year-old was mucking out the stables as usual at Paul Nicholls’ yard on Thursday morning. ‘There was nothing I could do to avoid it, you just have to let it take it’s course and hope it’s not a bad one. I’ve just got a cut on the nose so I’ve been very lucky. I got a bit of abuse from the lads and picked up a few hundred twitter followers but it’s all good banter. It won’t stop me getting back on a course. There’s been no special treatment. ‘My parents who live in the Scottish Borders were worried so I gave them a call so they knew I was ok. It’s not going to put me off riding at all I’d like to ride at the Cheltenham Festival and Aintree every year, that’s the ultimate aim. Bit disappointing because he was in front and maybe could have won. Jockey Ferguson hits the fence after his ride stumbles wildly on the approach to the fence at Wincanton. Colliding with the barrier forces the amateur jockey into a spectacular mid-air somersault. Wincanton clerk of the course Barry Johnson called it the worst fall he had ever seen. It was only Ferguson’s fifth race and the first time he had fallen although he has fallen a few times riding out. ‘Hopefully the next time I’m on the front page of the newspaper it will be for winning the Gold Cup or the Grand National. I gave the horse a little pat after, not a big one. Given the somersaults, maybe I’ll look at having a gymnastics career after finishing racing.’ Merrion Square was a hotly-tipped favourite to win the 4.20 at Wincanton on Wednesday until the fall. Ferguson escaped the fall and the only real pain was the cut on his nose and the banter from his friends.
