When you’re in good touch, it just takes a moment. Nathan Redmond had only been on the pitch for six minutes when he made the decisive intervention in this tightly-fought encounter, but what a crucial one it could prove to be. Steven Whittaker, with sharp eyes and precise feet, played Redmond in down the right touchline, the ball hugging the white line as it went forward. Redmond’s natural acceleration saw him spectacularly outpace Joe Bennett and his low cross was fired high into the net by Bradley Johnson at the back post. Bradley Johnson celebrates after firing home a second-half winner at the Amex Stadium. The Norwich goalscorer showed his delight after scoring what turned out to be the winning goal. Norwich striker Cameron Jerome is brought down by Brighton captain Gordon Greer during the clash. BRIGHTON (4-3-3): Stockdale; Bruno, Greer, Halford, Bennett; Kayal (Mackail-Smith 79), Ince, Stephens; Calderon (LuaLua 71), O'Grady (Best 79), Teixeira. Subs not used: Walton, Dunk, Forster-Caskey, Carayol. Booked: Greer, Ince. Goal: Johnson 62. NORWICH (4-4-1-1): Ruddy; Whittaker, Martin, Bassong, Olsson; Howson, Tettey, Dorrans, Johnson; Hoolahan (Redmond 56); Jerome (Hooper 88) Subs not used: Rudd, Cuellar, Loza, O'Neil, Odjidja-Ofoe. Booked: Whittaker, Hooper. Referee: Andy Davies (Hampshire) Attendance: 28,890 (3,214 away) From start to finish, the move took about 10 seconds. Norwich were inferior for pretty much the rest of the contest but needed only this flash of inspiration to keep their Barclays Premier League promotion hopes on course. It just takes a moment. It took Alex Neil’s record as manager to 11 wins from 16 - a magnificent return - and has them breathing down the necks of Middlesbrough and Bournemouth, who occupy those coveted automatic spots. Down and out of the race at the New Year, they are now fancied by many. The manner of the defeat would have frustrated Chris Hughton, desperate to get one over on his former employers. But in the end, even he would appreciate the ruthless smash and grab nature of Norwich’s win here. Hughton insisted in advance of the game that he bore no animosity to his former employers, who dumped him in April 2014 as the club sat 17th and safe in the Premier League. They weren’t able to maintain that position and were relegated but under the masterful guidance of Neil have mounted an impressive late charge for an immediate return to the big time. The Canaries travelled down to the south coast having lost just once in their last dozen games and eight wins within that sequence had them anchored in the play-offs, with reasonable hope of more. And in persistent drizzle at The Amex, they made the brighter opening. Jonny Howson touched a free-kick short to Johnson who, off a fast bowler’s run-up, leathered a rocket shot that David Stockdale had to turn around the post. If Norwich do gain promotion, Cameron Jerome will have been one of the main reasons with his 19 goals and his awareness teed up Wes Hoolahan, whose shot was blocked by Stockdale at his near post. Jerome gesticulates during the Championship encounter at the Amex Stadium on Good Friday. Norwich midfielder Jonathan Howson shows his anger at a decision by shouting at the linesman. And Jerome was a stud’s length away from turning home Martin Olsson’s wicked left-wing cross just before the half-hour mark. Brighton, down in 16th, have little to play for but pride in the remaining weeks of the season but they seized control of the game as the first-half drew on. Rohan Ince and Beram Kayal gained a stranglehold on the midfield, while Liverpool loanee Joao Teixeira was often too hot for the Norwich defence to handle. He was wayward, however, when Kayal seized upon a weak pass from Sebastien Bassong, roamed unchallenged into the area and set him up in a good shooting-position. Teixeira dragged his effort wide of the post, to Bassong’s great relief. But the skilful Portuguese was soon back in the action, waltzing into the area and firing off a firm low shot that Ruddy palmed back out. Chris O’Grady was lurking but Norwich captain Russell Martin cleared. Johnson shoots at Brighton goalkeeper David Stockdale's during his side's 1-0 win against Brighton. In stoppage time, it was the turn of Graham Dorrans to be hesitant at the back, clearing in too much of a hurry and inviting Teixeira to run it back. Ruddy blocked with his legs at the near post. In the away technical area, Neil cut an irritated figure. He stomped around restlessly, throwing up his arms and cursing every time a move broke down. His half-time team talk was no doubt voluble. It took a while to sink in but the result was spectacular when it did as Johnson made the difference. ‘Going up, up, up’ chanted the 3,000-plus from Norfolk and for the only time all afternoon, Neil permitted himself a smile. Hughton rolled the dice, introducing Kazenga LuaLua first then Leon Best and Craig Mackail-Smith. Slowly, they started to create more and Ruddy bravely intervened to reach LuaLua’s drilled cross in front of Mackail-Smith. But the late siege didn’t come and Norwich go rolling on. Norwich's Wes Hoolahan (left) battles for possession with Joe Bennett (right) of Brighton & Hove Albion.
