Troubled footballer Clarke Carlisle has revealed he has split from his wife as he continues to battle with depression following his failed suicide attempt. The former Premier League defender said he had 'moved out of the marital home' in Yorkshire that he shared with his wife of 14 years, Gemma. Mr Carlisle tried to kill himself in December, two days after he was arrested on suspicion of drink-driving. Scroll down for video. Split: Clarke Carlisle says he has 'moved out of the marital home' in Yorkshire that he shared with his wife of 14 years, Gemma. The pair are pictured together in 2013. The 35-year-old father-of-three stepped in front of a 12-ton truck on the A64 near York in December, suffering cuts, bruises, internal bleeding, a broken rib and a shattered left knee. The incident has left the ex-Burnley defender with scars all over his body. On television this week Mr Carlisle, who has publicly struggled with depression, revealed the scars he still bears from his suicide attempt are a 'constant reminder' of his good fortune in surviving. Now Mr Carlisle, who played 131 times for the Clarets between 2007 and 2012, said the accident had led to him moving out of the house he shared with wife Gemma. The sportsman, dubbed 'Britain's brainiest footballer' after he appeared on Countdown in 2002, told TalkSport Radio on a special Monday night show: 'At this point, Gemma and I have separated. 'I have moved out of the marital home because I have to focus on my well-being and equally as much Gemma has to do the same. 'She has to deal with her experiences and the effect that has had on her.' Mr Carlisle appeared on Good Morning Britain this week and revealed the scars he still bears from his suicide attempt are a 'constant reminder' of his good fortune in surviving. Asked about how his wife Gemma has taken it, he added: 'Every day has been incredibly tough and different. 'When you have been with someone for 14 years but masking things and thoughts from her, it was because I was a people-pleaser. 'I've desperately wanted to say what I know will make her happy and do the things that I think she wants me to do - instead of being myself.' Earlier this week Mr Carlisle apologised to the driver of the lorry which he jumped in front of in an attempt to kill himself. The former footballer said that he prays for the driver, Darren Pease, every day - but added that he has been unable to apologise in person because the haulier refuses to meet him. Star: Mr Carlisle pictured playing for Burnley against Aston Villa in 2010, at the peak of his footballing career. Appearing on ITV's Good Morning Britain on Tuesday, Mr Carlisle said he was 'so sorry' for putting Mr Pease through the ordeal of being involved in a near-fatal crash. Speaking earlier this month, Mr Pease, 53, said that he might never be able to drive a lorry again after hitting Mr Carlisle. Mr Carlisle played for nine different clubs in his 16-year career, including five years at Burnley, and served as chairman of the Professional Footballers' Association. Last week, he pleaded guilty to failing to provide a sample when he was stopped by police in December as his car was swerving around the road. He will be sentenced in May. For confidential support call the Samaritans in the UK on 08457 90 90 90, visit a local Samaritans branch or click here for details.
