Franck Ribery has dismissed reports linking Wolfsburg forward Kevin de Bruyne with Bayern Munich as a potential replacement for the former France international or his team-mate Arjen Robben. De Bruyne, who spent his two years at Chelsea largely on loan before joining the second-placed Bundesliga club, has scored nine goals this season and is topping the league's assist charts with 16 – seven more than the next best. But Ribery says despite his impressive form the 23-year-old Belgian is the wrong style of player to come in under Pep Guardiola because he has different assets to himself and the Holland winger. Kevin de Bruyne is linked with Bayern Munich as a potential replacement for the club's veteran forwards. The Wolfsburg playmaker, here in action for Belgium against Israel, has 16 assists and nine goals this season. Bayern's Franck Ribery says despite De Bruyne's impressive form he is the wrong type of player for Munich. 'He is not a player who takes the ball and dribbles forward and likes to have the opponents in front of him,' Ribery told German publication Sport Bild. 'De Bruyne is great, when he fits the counterattack. At Bayern, however, you usually only have three or four metres in front of you, not a lot of room. But he is a good player and he is still young, so he can still learn.' Ribery and Robben's contracts run out in 2017 and both have endured injuries worries of late prompting reports that an injection of youth such as 23-year-old De Bruyne could be good for the club. Ribery (left) says De Bruyne's counter-attacking skills don't mesh with the style of Pep Guardiola (right) Ribery has struggled with injuries of late and has been linked with moves away from the Bundesliga leaders. Should Bayern be in the market for a young attacker, however, Ribery knows precisely who he'd want to see at Allianz Arena – De Bruyne's Belgian team-mate Eden Hazard. 'He attacks all of the time. He loves to run at his opponent,' he said. 'But he plays at Chelsea - this could be very expensive for Bayern.' If Bayern do go for De Bruyne, against their outspoken veteran's advice, they'll have competition from Manchester City, who have met with his representatives, along with Paris Saint-Germain. Wolfsburg are said to be keen to hang onto him for at least one more campaign that should include next season's Champions League. Chelsea's Eden Hazard would be an ideal fit with Guardiola and the Allianz Arena, says Ribery, but expensive.
