Tiger Woods declared himself ready to compete for a fifth Masters title after completing 11 holes of practice at Augusta National on Monday. Woods has started just two events in 2015, shooting a career-worst score of 82 to miss the cut in the first of them and withdrawing through injury after just 11 holes of the second on February 5. That led to the 14-time major winner taking a break from competition to work on his game, during which time he dropped outside the world's top 100 for the first time since September 1996, a slide which continued on Monday as he fell from 104th to 111th. Tiger Woods returned to action as he warmed up at Augusta National Golf Club ahead of The Masters. The 39-year-old is returning from a self-imposed break from golf to recover from injuries and a dip in form. Woods was given a warm welcome by the crowd and stopped to sign several autographs at Augusta. Woods has not won a major since the 2008 US Open and the last of his four Masters wins was a decade ago, with the 39-year-old only confirming on Friday that he would compete at Augusta. However, after showing no sign of the chipping 'yips' which blighted his performance in Phoenix on the range, Woods produced some vintage shots as he completed the front nine alongside long-time friend Mark O'Meara before playing the 10th and 18th alone. 'I felt good. It was nice to get out here,' said Woods, who was two under after four holes despite a wayward drive on the first and three-putting the par-five second for a par. 'Chipping is fine. I wanted to test out some wedges out here. That was why I was chipping a little bit more. It came down to a couple of different bounce settings because it's different from Florida. We figured the right one out. 'It's been a process. But I'm on the good side now. It's progression. I felt like I had to get my game into a spot where I could compete to win a golf tournament and it's finally there.' Woods has not won a major since the US Open in 2008 and will be looking to get back to his best. Woods stopped to chat to Europe's Ryder Cup captain Darren Clarke (right) at Augusta on Monday. O'Meara, who won the Masters and Open in 1998, said: 'The thing about the kid is that you can never underestimate Tiger Woods. I'm a huge fan, a friend and I care about him. 'It was good to be out there with him. I saw some good signs. His pitching looks a lot better. 'There's a lot of pressure on him but there is no reason why he should not have a good week this week. 'There are not many people that have played the game of golf like he has. The game of golf is better because of Tiger Woods. 'He is in a good place and I think he is fired up about it. He will be nervous on Thursday but I think he will be fine. He hit a couple of shots that were a little off but a lot of quality shots.' Earlier in the day, US Open champion Martin Kaymer said he still felt Woods was 'the man,' but added: 'Who really knows what is going on in his head? Woods looked confident and managed to pull off some impressive drives in front of the crowd. Woods hits a chip shot on to the green during the practice session ahead of the Masters 2015. Woods smiles during the practice round prior to the tee off of the 2015 Masters on Thursday. 'I hope he's happy. I hope he's fine. I hope he will play well this week. But what would bother me a lot is all the speculation. You don't have a choice; you will read about it somewhere. You will hear about it because you socialise with people. 'So mentally it must be quite exhausting and we know how important the mental part is in golf. It's difficult and some things I don't find very fair. You know, you should just let him be. Let him play golf, what he likes to do. 'Sometimes I look at it and find it quite sad how people treat the whole subject. It shouldn't be like this in my opinion. But that's how it is unfortunately. That is how a lot of people make their money and some athletes, they suffer because of that. 'Hopefully he's strong enough, he has people to talk to, and he finds a way to compete as good as he can. Because we all know when he's around, somehow it does make us play better, as well. 'I never experienced someone who played better than him. In my era, I never played with Seve (Ballesteros) and I never played with Arnold Palmer, Jack Nicklaus, those guys. So for me, what I have seen and what I have experienced, he's the man.'
