These are the amazing scenes as high school girls in China are put through their paces with military-style dagger drills. Each of the girls shout the words 'kill, stab, slash and jab' as they perform each of the eight set movements involved in the high-intensity knife-fighting session. According to the People's Daily Online, the girls of the 27th March Huizhou Integrated High School are being trained by former special forces solider Inspector Tan. The 68 girls involved in the training are all aged between 16 and 18, however in a concession to safety, the knives are not real. School official Huang Anruo said: 'The daggers are fake. The school purchased them in bulk and they pose no danger to students.' Every female student undergoes some form of self-defence training. According to Instructor Tan: 'If faced with real danger our female students can use any sharp object to hand to handle the attacker. Chopsticks and forks for instance.' The girls aged between 16 and 18 are receiving intensive instruction in how to use a knife form a former special forces solider. The knives each have retractable blades to prevent injury, but the girls are being taught techniques which could save their lives. The first 68 of the girls underwent their five-day training session with Instructor Tan at the 27th March Huizhou Integrated High School. Every female student at the school will undergo some form of self-defence training to assist them in identifying dangerous situations. Instructor Tan said the girls, once trained, will be able to use any sharp implement to defend themselves in future including chopsticks. The school has purchased 250 of the knives, which have a plastic retractable blade and according to officials are entirely safe. The girls are all shown a series of eight moves which will enable them to defend themselves against a determined attacker. The girls are all encourage to shout 'kill, stab, slash and jab' while they work their way through the various self-defence movements. The training, which takes five days, is proving incredibly popular with the girls who learn the latest self-defence techniques.
