Two college campus police officers in Dallas have been placed on administrative leave after shocking video footage surfaced of them harassing a group of four students and arresting one after first hitting him. The incident occurred at El Centro College and was captured on cell phone by student Charles Adams, who was smoking a cigarette when he witnessed the abuse at first hand last Wednesday. The officers approached the high school students while they were waiting for a bus outside the downtown Dallas campus. Scroll down for video. Two college campus police officers in Dallas have been placed on administrative leave after shocking video footage surfaced of them harassing a group of four students and arresting one after first hitting him. The footage shows the young men being ordered to face a brick wall, while one of the two campus cops searched, questioned, and even hit one of the teens. The school reportedly won't say why the teens were stopped and frisked, but Adams said he believes the officers totally overreacted. 'Instead of asking them to move along like she should have, she told them to put their hands against the wall, and that's where the video picks up,' Adams told WFAA. 'I was horrified the way she was treating these kids as criminals for nothing.' His cell phone video, which surfaced on You Tube, shows one of the students being slapped by an officer before she handcuffs him. 'I've got a lot of stuff on my belt I could use on you this afternoon. I guarantee you I will be glad to use it,' she is heard saying to another of the group. The school reportedly won't say why the teens were stopped and frisked, but the student will filmed the incident has said he believes the officers totally overreacted. She also asked them if they had any dope on them and then proceeds to search their pockets and grab at their clothes. El Centro College President Jose Adames has said a full investigation is underway. 'In this case we decided to do a thorough investigation, and place two officers on leave because of the interactions we saw in the video,' he told CBS DFW. The college has said it is seeking an opinion from the Texas attorney general and isn't releasing the police report because the subjects in the incident are minors. The school has 10,000 students and is part of the Dallas County Community College District. The incident occurred at El Centro College and was captured on cell phone by student Charles Adams, who was smoking a cigarette when he witnessed the abuse at first hand last Wednesday.
