A basketball star has warmed hearts across his high school with his thoughtful 'prom-posal' to a girl with Down syndrome. On Thursday, Trey Moses, a senior at Eastern High School in Louisville, Kentucky who will play for Ball State next year, asked Ellie Meredith to be his date to the upcoming prom. Moses, who volunteers with teenagers with learning disabilities, surprised her during her P.E. class with a bunch of flowers and a sign reading: 'Let's Party Like it's 1989' - a reference to an album by Taylor Swift, Ellie's favorite singer. Ellie accepted the promposal and said she can't wait to go dress shopping 'because I've only told about a million people!' she told CNN. Heading to prom: Trey Moses, a senior at Eastern High School in Louisville, Kentucky who will play for Ball State next year, asked Ellie Meredith to be his date to the upcoming prom - and she accepted. The night before the promposal, Moses texted Ellie's parents to get their permission - and they were thrilled, they told CNN. 'You just feel numb to those moments raising a special needs child,' Darla Meredith, Ellie's mother, said. 'You first feel the need to protect and then to overprotect.' She said that her daughter met Moses through a program called 'Best Buddies', which encourages friendships between teenagers with developmental disabilities with other students. After his successful promposal, Moses, who has a girlfriend, posted photos of the event to his Twitter page, saying: 'Decided to ask my best friend to prom.' The tweet has been shared nearly 2,000 times. The 6ft9 basketball star committed to Ball State in September after receiving 12 scholarship offers. Joy: Moses, who volunteers with teenagers with learning disabilities, surprised Ellie during class with a sign reading: 'Let's Party Like it's 1989' - a reference to an album by Taylor Swift, Ellie's favorite singer. Firm friends: He met Ellie through his work with a program called 'Best Buddies', which encourages friendships between teenagers with developmental disabilities with other students. 'I felt like they're are on the rise and going to be good in a couple years, and I want to be a part of it,' Moses told The Courier Journal at the time. 'I feel like I'll be able to come in and fight for a spot my freshman year.' And as well as playing basketball, Trey intends on keeping up the good work with his community and plans on majoring in special education. In light of his promposal, his future coach at Ball State, James Whitford, said the staff had long-admired the student's kindess towards others. 'We originally watched him play and evaluated him on his talent, not who he is as a person,' Whitford told the Ball State Daily. 'As we started to research him as a person, we found that he has the character to bring out the best in those around him. 'The best thing about Trey, is that this is not a one-time thing.'
