Dundee manager Paul Hartley is not reading too much into Dundee United's recent slide ahead of Wednesday night's Scottish Premiership derby at Dens Park. United have lost seven of their last nine matches in all competitions, drawing the other two, while their last league victory was way back on January 24 against Motherwell. However, Hartley is refusing to believe that will make his side's job any easier as they attempt to register their first win in a derby this season at the fourth attempt. Paul Hartley is not reading too much into Dundee United's recent slide ahead of Wednesday's  derby game. Hartley said: 'They've still got good players. 'We're under no illusion about the talent they have throughout the squad. 'We've seen it throughout the season - and in games against us, in particular. We know they've got players who can hurt you anywhere. We need to be focused on what we can do.' Dundee are without a win in three matches themselves, following up their defeat to Ross County with 1-1 draws against Aberdeen and Inverness. Dundee Utd's Nadir Ciftci scores his side's equalising goal from the penalty spot against Ross County. Callum Morris celebrates his goal during the Scottish League Cup match against Aberdeen. That has left them in seventh place in the table on 41 points, five behind fourth-placed United and two adrift of Hamilton in sixth. Hartley said: 'We're trying to look at getting as many points before the split, try to get into that top six. 'We're not far off but we know we need to win some games. 'If we get a result in the derby, it takes us a couple of points behind United, yes. But the main thing for us is trying to catch our nearest opponent.' Dundee Utd's John Souttar battles for the ball with Liam Boyce during their game at Tannadice. Despite not having won since February, Hartley believes his players can still take confidence into Wednesday's match after taking points off top-three sides Aberdeen and Inverness. He said: 'We're on a pretty good run. 'Our results recently have been decent against some good teams in the league. So all credit to the lads for that. We want to keep that going and derby games are always special. If you win, it can give everyone a great lift. Dundee United's Cifti in action with Aberdeen's Peter Pawlett during the Scottish Communities League Cup. 'We know what's at stake and we want to finish the season as strongly as possible. 'Our punters will be really looking forward to it and we would love to give them the three points.' Dundee defender James McPake will be given until the last minute to prove his fitness ahead of the derby after being sent for a scan on his knee. Hartley said: 'He caught his knee in training on Thursday, did very little on Friday and felt OK throughout the Inverness game. He just landed awkwardly from a corner.'
