A man who lost his sight 12 years ago has discovered a love of painting and can create amazing images just by touch. John Bramblitt, 42, had epilepsy from the age of 11 and over the next 19 years it slowly caused him to lose his eyesight. At the age of 30, the artist from Denton in Texas was completely blind. Despite this, he decided that an inability to see should not prevent him from painting. Scroll down for video. Artist John Bramblitt, right, discovered his love of painting after losing his sight some 12 years ago. The artist uses a special technique using a fabric paint to create an outline before colouring in the work. Despite never seeing his guide dog, Mr Bramblitt was able to create this highly accurate painting. Mr Bramblitt uses a special fabric paint with raised edges to sketch the outline of his work, before filling in the gaps. Over the next 12 years he was able to refine this technique until he was able to work seamlessly. First he forms a picture in his mind and uses fabric paint to produce an outline before filling in with paints with different textures based on colour. Mr Brambitt said: 'When I lost my sight I began to learn how to use senses in new ways to accomplish tasks I was used to doing with my eyes. 'I began painting because I wanted to reconnect with people; to let people know even though I have epilepsy, even though I am blind, I'm still me in here. 'The recognition my painting and workshops has brought has meant more connections with an incredible number of brilliant people from all over. 't gives me a great optimism for the future.' Video courtesy: DMA.org. Mr Bramblitt uses a special technique to transfer the scene which he imagines onto the canvas. Mr Bramblitt developed epilepsy aged 11 which slowly resulted in him losing his eyesight. Mr Bramblitt, left, uses a special technique to help him translate his visions onto the canvas, right. The artist has sold limited edition prints of his work for $150 each as well as original artworks. Mr Bramblitt said his love of painting has giving him reason to be optimistic for his future. Mr Bramblitt went blind at the age of 30 after suffering from epilepsy since the age of 11.
