A Reading fan is facing a three-year ban after running topless on to the pitch and performing a series of somersaults during his first-ever game at the Madejski Stadium. Charlie Sumner, 20, staged a one-man pitch invasion during the Royals' FA Cup 3-0 quarter-final replay win over Bradford City last month. Sumner, whose team were 3-0 up at the time, did four front flips on the pitch - landing on his back, before being tackled by stewards. Reading fan Charlie Sumner (left) faces a three-year football ban after his one-man pitch invasion last month. Sumner - who said going to his first game was a 'brilliant experience' - is now facing a potential three-year ban for carrying out the stunt. The order, due to be decided on April 30, would stop him going to all of Reading's future home and away matches. On Wednesday, Sumner, from Wokingham, Berkshire, said he had no regrets about the incident, adding that he had done it for 'laugh' and that his family had 'seen the funny side'. Speaking outside court, he said: 'After doing it and seeing good comments and messages, even from the away fans, I don't look back and regret it. The incident occurred during the Royals' 3-0 FA Cup quarter-final replay win over Bradford. 'Obviously I wouldn't inform other people to do it. It was just spur of the moment. It's good to see good feedback and not negative feedback. 'I'd had a few drinks, I was happy and Reading were winning and I just went for it and had a laugh. It was brilliant.' Asked whether he goes to many Reading matches, he added: 'That was my first game actually. It was a good experience. Obviously being there on the first game - not after what I've done, but standing in the stadium, watching the game from the stadium - it's a brilliant experience. 'Obviously with the ban, I wouldn't be able to experience that experience again.' The incident took place on March 16, when the match was being broadcast live to millions of viewers on BBC One. Afterwards, footage of Sumner's antics also went viral on the internet. Despite facing a potential banning order  Sumner was in good spirits outside Reading Magistrates' Court. Sumner, who went to the match with a group of eight friends, said he spoke to them in a taxi on the way to the match about potentially running on to the pitch. 'I did say no at first. Then Reading were winning and I got a bit excited,' he said. 'I went to rave on Friday and there's another video on Facebook and I'm doing flips there. I've had a few selfies, a few drinks bought for me.' But Sumner, who works as a dry liner fixing ceilings, said he thought a potential football banning order 'seemed a bit much.' After running on to the pitch, Sumner (centre) was tackled by stewards and footage of his antics went viral. 'I don't want a three-year ban because obviously it's quite a bit,' he said. 'I'm not encouraging people do it and if I go to another game, I'm not going to do it again.' At Wednesday's hearing, Sumner's solicitor entered a guilty plea on his client's behalf to one count of going on to a playing area at a football match under the Football Offences Act 1991. Sumner, who was at court but missed his hearing after leaving the building briefly, was released on bail with conditions that he does not attend Reading's home or away matches. He will appear at Reading Magistrates' Court on April 30 when a decision will be made on whether he receives a football banning order. Sumner (centre) said he spoke to friends on the way to the stadium about the stunt and has no regrets.
