The mighty boot of Marcelo Bosch kept the English flag flying in Europe as the Argentinian kicked Saracens through to the Champions Cup semi-finals with a famous last-minute penalty. No chorus of boos or whistles would stop the sweet strike rising above the 1950s tower blocks in the Colombes suburbs, with the ice cool 31-year-old mobbed by players and coaches as Racing Metro 92 were unceremoniously dumped out of the competition. It was the South American’s finest moment since he arrived on continental shores. Referee Nigel Owens was escorted off the pitch by security but his call –penalising replacement lock Fabrice Metz with 10 seconds left on the clock – was the correct decision and ensured a classic finale to match bereft or flair and finesse. Scenes of elation as Saracens clinch victory with the last play of the match against Racing Metro 92. Marcelo Bosch kicks the match-winning penalty from long-range to snatch Saracen's a semi-final berth. Argentine Bosch raises his arms aloft after being entrusted with the final kick of the game. Bosch jumps into the arms of Rhys Gills after his successful kick as Hodgson joins the celebrations. Bosch is mobbed by his elated Sarries team-mates after his kick sails over the posts for the win. England's first team through to the semi-finals in the European Rugby Champions Cup semis celebrate. RACING METRO 92: Dulin, Imhoff, Chavancy, Roberts, Thomas, Sexton, Machenaud, Ben Arous, Szarzewski, Ducalcon, Charteris, Van Der Merwe, Lauret, Gerondeau, Claassen. Replacements: Lacombe, Brugnaut, Mujati, Metz, Dubarry, Phillips, Goosen, Dumoulin. Tries: Machenaud Penalties: Machenaud (2) Conversions: Nil. Referee: Nigel Owens (Wales) SARACENS: Goode, Ashton, Bosch, Wyles, Strettle, Hodgson, Wigglesworth, M. Vunipola, George, Du Plessis, Kruis, J. Hamilton, Wray, Burger, B. Vunipola. Replacements: Brits, Barrington, Johnston, Itoje, Brown, Hankin, De Kock, Tompkins. Tries: Nil Penalties: Hodgson (2), Goode, Bosch Conversions: Nil. ‘The last time I kicked to win the game was when I was 21 and playing for an amateur club in Argentina,’ said Bosch. 'It was from more or less the same range and it was against our clasico rivals. It was a great memory for me, but it was a long time ago. ‘I tried to be as relaxed as possible. We had the wind in our face and I didn’t want to force it. I tried not to think about what it represented and I said, “Why not? I can take it.” The rest is history. With kicks like this, you’re either the hero or the bad guy - I’m happy that it went my way.’ It was the sort of strike that was associated with Ronan O’Gara during his illustrious playing career with Munster and Ireland. The retired No 10, now kicking coach for the Top 14 side, watched helplessly from the stands of the Stade Olympique Yves-du-Manoir as the ball sailed between the posts to set up a knockout meeting with Clermont in Saint Etienne. Alex Goode leaps the tackle of Juan Imhoff during the Champions Cup quarter-final outside Paris. Charlie Hodgson kicks the first penalty of the match to give Saracens a 3-0 lead. Sarries full back Alex Goode (centre) evades Racing's Welsh centre Jamie Roberts (right) Racing and France scrum-half Maxime Machenaud crosses for the only try of the first half in outer Paris. CLERMONT v SARACENS, Stade Geoffroy-Guichard, St Etienne, Saturday, April 18, 3.15pm (GMT) TOULON v LEINSTER, Stade Vélodrome, Marseille, Sunday,     April 19, 3.15pm (GMT) Racing are a team who, in their early years, would play wearing berets and bow ties. They would drink champagne at half time but this was an abrasive and at times unabsorbing encounter, offering little to inspire the Parisian painters couched on the sidelines to capture the moments of magic. The partisan home crowd were angered by two of Owens’ decisions in the opening quarter, with the Welshman not penalising Alex Goode for a block on French winger Teddy Thomas and scratching off a potential try for Dimitri Szarzewski because of a knock on. Charlie Hodgson kicked two first-half penalties – either side of a 27th minute try for Maxime Machenaud after Saracens lost an attacking scrum - Jim Hamilton was shown a yellow card, the tourists were fortunate to go into the break with a one-point advantage. ‘We weren't great in the first half, even though we had a very strong wind,’ said Saracens director of rugby Mark McCall. ‘We were unable to build any pressure. Playing into that very strong wind and with Jonny Sexton playing No 10 for the opposition, being 6-5 up at half time felt like a mountain to climb. Marcelo Bosch is an Argentine utility back who moved to Europe in 2006 to play for Biarritz. He joined Saracens in the 2013-14 season and has featured predominantly at centre. He is not Saracens’ first-choice kicker - Owen Farrell, Charlie Hodgson and Alex Goode are all above him - but he has a hugely powerful strike. It’s earned him cult status with the Allianz Park crowd, who chant ‘Bosch, Bosch, Bosch’ whenever he lines up one of his kicks. As a teenager, Bosch played football in Buenos Aires but claims that it was always his dream to play rugby in England. He married Augustina last summer and they are expecting twins. Bosch's football skills aid his powerful kicking. Racing Metro 92 winger Teddy Thomas shows his speed to avoid Chris Wyles and escape the in-goal area. Sarries' stand-in captain Hodgson places his grubber kick underneath Wenceslas Lauret. Racing Metro and Ireland fly-half Jonny Sexton (left) locks horns with Sarries winger David Strettle. Strettle is upended going for a high ball against Racing's Brice Dulin, who escapes a yellow card. ‘But that's where it turned around and I'd say our second half performance was as courageous, brave and hard working as I've seen. We went hunting and kept knocking them down, scrapping for absolutely everything. Our rugby could have been better and it wasn't a beauty of a match, but we put them under enough pressure to make some errors and give us a chance.’ Cigarette smoke filled the air and, having never previously progressed from the pool stages, the hosts looked like they were choking on the pressure. Racing did most of the running but Saracens edged further ahead, with Goode also adding his weight to the kicking with a 47th minute penalty. Wales and Racing centre Jamie Roberts threatened in attack, but was hauled off in the 52nd minute. Bosch then tackled his countryman Juan Imhoff just short of the line – although the pitch-length move was subsequently pulled back for a forward pass – and Billy Vunipola intervened with a crucial turnover to snuff out a Racing attack. But Saracens were unable to build upon their lead and, just past the hour mark, Racing narrowed the gap thanks to three points from Machenaud. A game of kick tennis ensued and the French No 9 pushed his side into the lead with his second penalty 10 minutes later. The blue and white flags were waving and the bass drum was beating but, sacrebleu, Metro tried to run down the clock. Then Metz came flying off his feet at the crucial moment. Bosch stepped up for the penalty and, after a short run up, his kick floated gracefully between the sticks. England No 8 Billy Vunipola fends off Racing centre Henri Chavancy   at Yves Du Manoir Stadium in Colombes. Sexton fires a bullet-like pass as he clears the ball from the ruck against Saracens. Sarries winger Chris Ashton gets a kick away under the tackle of Argentinean Juan Imhoff.
