West Ham manager Sam Allardyce has confirmed Winston Reid will be fit for Saturday's match with bottom-club Leicester City, but Enner Valencia will not be available. Reid has been out of action since injuring his hamstring in a 1-0 defeat by Chelsea on March 4, but the New Zealand defender returned to full training during the international break. Valencia missed West Ham's last two games against Arsenal and Sunderland following a bizarre toe injury suffered at home in mid-March, but Allardyce says he is still not match fit. West Ham centre back Winston Reid (right) tussles with Tottenham's Mousa Dembele in February. 'We've got Winston back in full training,' Allardyce confirmed. 'He'll be available. He's had the last seven days or so back in full training so should be available to go. 'He's a little bit rusty in match practice but he's obviously very important to us. 'I don't think Valencia is going to make it but he's back in some sort of training which is good. Even though he's back in training he's not quite available yet. Enner hasn't made it but Winston has.' Allardyce meets a Leicester team looking to kick start a run for their final eight games as they try to beat the drop from the Barclays Premier League to the Championship. Enner Valencia (left) shields the ball from Everton defender Phil Jagielka at the Boleyn Ground in January. West Ham beat Leicester 2-0 in the reverse fixture in mid-December and Big Sam says manager Nigel Pearson has been getting the performances, but not the results. 'I think overall Nigel must be pulling out his hair,' Allardyce said. 'Why have those performances not given them more results? That's the cruciality (sic) of the Premier League. 'On occasion, his team have been in the ascendancy. They have not taken advantage of it by not scoring or converting chances. They've paid the ultimate price in the end. That's this level for you.' West Ham boss Sam Allardyce feels Nigel Pearson (above) has received unfair criticism in recent months. Allardyce feels Pearson has received unfair criticism recently after a series of controversies, including grabbing Crystal Palace's James McArthur by the throat during a match and losing his cool at a reporter during a press conference. 'He's his own man. He has his own methods and believes in not only himself but what he's doing,' Allardyce added. 'Occasionally we all get under pressure. We may make odd comments or the odd mistake but we're human beings like Everybody else. 'He's doing an unbelievable job, not just at Leicester but as a manager.'
