Robbie Neilson insists the likes of captain Danny Wilson will only leave Hearts if he is satisfied it's right for the club. As Sportsmail revealed this week, Celtic have placed former Rangers defender Wilson on a list of potential summer recruits. Speaking ahead of Sunday's Championship clash with the Ibrox club, Neilson admitted external interest in his promoted players is inevitable. Hearts manager Robbie Neilson will not sell his players unless it is the right move for the club. Echoing the view of owner Ann Budge, however, the Tynecastle coach says departures will only happen on his say-so if the price is right. 'If you do really well in the Championship and the players excel then there is going to be interest,' admitted Neilson. 'That is football. 'There has been interest in a lot of my players and we have a few boys out of contract, who we are negotiating with at the moment. 'I would like to try to keep my best players but there is a realisation that bigger clubs can come in and take them. 'What I would say is: I wouldn't expect to lose anyone that I don't want to lose. If there are people I want to keep, I expect to keep them. Hearts have already secured promotion to the Scottish Premiership under Neilson's stewardship. 'If teams come in with an offer that is acceptable to us, then I'll expect to lose them. 'What I don't expect to happen is someone moves on and we are not happy about it. If someone leaves the club then it will be on terms that are acceptable to the club and the player.' Parkhead coach Ronny Deila admitted Wilson, a one-time £2million signing for Liverpool, is on his list of potential replacements for Jason Denayer and Virgil van Dijk, linked with Sunderland and Southampton. With a shrug of resignation, Neilson added: 'People talk about how comments from other managers can unsettle you. I think it gives you a boost, because you realise that teams admire you and are interested in you. 'When no team is interested in you... that is what unsettles you. You start worrying when nobody is talking about you. If there is interest in players then it just shows that they are doing really well. 'Big clubs talk, but I would like to think the majority of players have enjoyed their season here and would like to have a good crack at the top league. This is a great place to play and, if they do leave, then they must be really careful about where they go.' Owner Ann Budge has set Neilson and his players the target of a top-six finish in the top flight next season. Neilson, alongside director of football Craig Levein, is more focused on bringing new players into Hearts than losing the ones he has. Defender Adam Eckersley is out of contract, with talks to keep him ongoing. 'It is a case of getting things ironed out, really,' continued Neilson. 'There are also players I want to bring in who I am in talks with. The squad needs to change. 'I can't keep the same squad and expect to have the same impact at a higher level. Players will come in, players will go out and things will continue to evolve. Hopefully at the end of it we have a better team than we do now.' With six games of the Championship season to go and promotion already secured, Neilson already knows his targets for his second season as a manager. Speaking at the announcement of a ground-breaking sponsorship deal with charity Save the Children, Budge set her sights on a top-six finish in the Premiership. Captain Danny Wilson has been linked with Celtic, but won't be sold unless it is the right move for Hearts. Accepting the challenge, Neilson said: 'That is a target and life is all about setting yourself targets. I think getting into the top six is a reasonable aim. 'We have good players here already and we will be recruiting again over the summer to get better players in again. 'We have bags of confidence and a massive fanbase, which has backed us to the hilt. We have to aim for the top six. 'That is just the nature of the beast as head coach of a big football club - you need to meet the standards. To be honest, a top-six finish for a club like Hearts - if they had not been in the Championship - would be the bare minimum which should be acceptable.' To that end, there has been no let-up since securing promotion. Hearts players were shocked to be saddled with a triple training session this week despite securing their promotion goal with something to spare. The former Rangers defender (right, pictured against his former club) could join Celtic in the summer. Unbeaten away from home this season, Neilson wants that record to continue at Ibrox, where his side laid down a marker on the first day of the season. 'We had a triple session and, although we weren't out for too long, we were working hard for Sunday,' he revealed. 'We can't just think that we can down tools because we have won the league. 'We have six games and you simply have to win games at Hearts. 'We are not going to take our foot off the gas. It would be easy to just play games in training and say: "Let's have a jolly up for the week". 'When you do that, you lose focus and lose sight of what a big game Sunday is. It is a chance to go to Ibrox as champions and hopefully get a result.' Ironically, a third victory of the season over a Rangers side showing signs of improvement under Stuart McCall would benefit arch city rivals Hibernian the most. Of the view Hearts must win games for themselves rather than others, however, Neilson insisted: 'We don't owe that to any other teams - we owe it to ourselves and the fans, for our own personal pride. We have sold out our allocation on Sunday and everyone is paying good money to come and watch us. We need to give everything. It is not fair if we don't perform.'
