Lionel Messi's foot swelling is still a concern for Barcelona after the Argentine star missed both games for his country during the international break, and he now faces tests to determine whether he will be fit to tackle Celta Vigo on Sunday. The worries about Messi's fitness make the front cover of Spanish paper SPORT, who say that the four-time Ballon d'Or winner wants to play as his side look to close in on the La Liga title. However, those hopes could be curtailed by tests on Thursday. Team-mate Gerard Pique had spoken of his optimism regarding Messi's chances of playing on Saturday but it seems far from certain with AS labelling him a 'doubt'. SPORT's front page says Lionel Messi wants to play at the weekend and AS' front page reads: 'Next is Gaya' Messi was left out of both of Argentina's games during the international break with his swollen foot problem. While Messi wants to play, the problem continues and he faces tests on Thursday to decide if he can play. Marca talk about Danilo and Real Madrid's new transfer policy while Mundo Deportivo look at Felipe Anderson. 'In the end it is up to how he feels during the rest of the week,' Pique said. 'The medical staff are those who should decide. My feeling is that he will play.' ESPN have claimed that Messi's injury, which has been shrouded in mystery, was the result of a tackle by Martin Demichelis during Manchester City's Champions League exit against Barca last month. 'Messi broke down the right hoping to put the ball into the area for (Luis) Suarez or Neymar,' ESPN reported. ESPN have claimed that Messi's injury was the result of a tackle by Manchester City's Martin Demichelis. The La Liga top scorer did manage to play in El Clasico against Real Madrid, but his impact was limited. 'At that moment Demichelis savagely brought him down and sent him crashing into the advertising hoardings. Messi did not get up and when he finally moved grabbed his right foot with both hands, visibly concerned.' While the La Liga top scorer did manage to play in El Clasico against Real Madrid, his impact was limited and the problem has since become more troublesome. AS also focus on the interest of England's top two clubs in bringing a young Spanish talent to the Barclays Premier League. Jose Luis Gaya is a 19-year-old left back playing for Valencia as part of the defence with the second-best record in La Liga this season. Manchester City and Chelsea target Jose Luis Gaya shields the ball from Fernando Torres for Valencia. Mundo Deportivo say Felipe Anderson is a target for Barcelona having also been linked to Manchester City. Gaya's rumoured £13.1million release clause could tempt Chelsea and Manchester City, who AS say are ready to bring in one of the up-and-coming stars of Spanish football although they face competition from Real Madrid. Mundo Deportivo also touch on Messi's late medical tests but their main story is on how Barcelona are keeping tabs on the top talent coming out of Serie A, with a particular focus on Lazio midfielder Felipe Anderson. The Barca-based paper say the La Liga leaders have been spying on Anderson's progress of late, while Manchester City are also known to hold an interest. Corriere dello Sport look at the race for the Champions League while Tuttosport see Juve's 'cup obsession' Torino right back Matteo Darmian is linked with a move to Barcelona in Tuttosport after starring for Italy. L'Equipe speculate at what could happen with Radamel Falcao after his loan at Manchester United ends. Falcao's potential move back to Ligue 1 is prominent on L'Equipe's front page while A Bola look at Heldon. In Italy, Corriere dello Sport look at a familiar topic for English fans: the race for the Champions League, with a focus on Roma and Napoli. The capital club are just one point ahead of their closest rivals for a European place, and they face a tough derby against Lazio in Saturday's early kick-off. Tuttosport choose to look at Juventus' trophy obsession, with director Pavel Nedved saying: 'We've got to believe in the Champions League.' They also mention Barcelona's Serie A scouting, with Torino right back Matteo Darmian the man they are going for. Meanwhile, L'Equipe in France speculate about a return to Monaco for Manchester United's on-loan flop Radamel Falcao and Portugal's A Bola say Heldon Ramos will return from his loan at Cordoba to find a starting place at Sporting Lisbon.
