Sergio Garcia insists he is focused on winning his first PGA Tour title since 2012 at this week's Shell Houston Open, despite the Masters being just around the corner. Rory McIlroy's bid for a third major victory in succession to complete the career grand slam, plus the question of whether Tiger Woods will end his self-imposed exile from the game, have dominated the agenda for weeks. But, although the Golf Club of Houston is set up to try to replicate some of the conditions the players will face at Augusta, Garcia is concentrating on ending his victory drought. Sergio Garcia lines up a putt during the Cadillac Championship in Doral, Florida last month. The 35-year-old, who finished third 12 months ago but went on to miss the cut at Augusta, told a pre-tournament press conference: 'I think that every single week it's a new story and some weeks you play terrible and then the next week you play amazing. 'Some weeks you play great and the next week you play terrible and some weeks I play great and then you play great. You never know what's going to come out. Obviously you hope and you wish that you play as best as you can. 'I think that there's no doubt that obviously the Masters is in the back of our minds, but I'm here to play well, to get in some good rhythm, to have a chance at winning this week and then as soon as Sunday finishes then I'll concentrate on the Masters. Garcia hits his approach from the fairway at the TPC Blue Monster Course last month. 'I'm not going to be on the golf course this week thinking maybe let's try this shot because I'll have it next week on the 12th or on the 15th or something like that. No. I'm going to be focused on what I want to achieve here and then when Sunday finishes then I can concentrate on next week. 'I felt really comfortable here when I came last year. I wanted to try it again this year and hopefully I'll do better next week, too.' Spaniard Garcia plays out of the trees by the 11th hole at Augusta during the Masters in 2013. Garcia is also comfortable with the fact that he may never win a major after coming close yet again in the Open last year, finishing second behind McIlroy at Hoylake. 'If it comes down to me not winning any majors when I'm done with my golfing career, I'm not going to be sad,' he added. 'It's not the main thing. Obviously it's something nice to have, and if I get it I'm not going to give it back, but it's not the main thing in my life. 'I think as you get older, as you get more and more experience, you realize the important things in life. I'm not saying that winning a major is not important, but it's not the most important thing in the world. I think there's a lot of other things that you can do that can not only fulfil you as a player, but also as a person.' Garcia (left) stands beside Rickie Fowler with their runner-up trophies at last year's Open at Hoylake. Garcia and Texas native Jordan Spieth are the only players in the world's top 10 left in the field after the withdrawals of Henrik Stenson and Jimmy Walker. World number two Stenson has the flu and cancelled a trip to Augusta, while Walker headed to Augusta after winning the Valero Texas Open but was taken ill and joined Stenson in pulling out. The winner in Houston will qualify for the Masters if they are not already exempt.
