Brentford manager Mark Warburton was delighted to see his side triumph 4-1 against Fulham in a hard-fought west London derby at Craven Cottage. Stuart Dallas fired home two superb strikes while a sublime free-kick from second-half substitute Alan Judge and a late fourth from Jota ensured all three points. Brentford moved to fifth in the table on 69 points with six games left to play and remain firmly in play-off contention. Brentford boss Mark Warburton was delighted with his Brentford side's win over local rivals Fulham. Stuart Dallas scored twice to put the Bees in a commanding lead at Craven Cottage on Saturday afternoon. Warburton said: 'I'm really pleased. The first 10-15 minutes we were, not slow but it was a big local derby, the atmosphere was electric, but after that 15-minute spell I thought we were very good. 'I like the way we moved the ball and maintained pace and we were good for our lead at half-time. They were great strikes from Stuart Dallas but what disappointed me was their penalty, I thought it was as soft as they come and it changed the game. 'For the next 10 minutes the Fulham crowd were up and their players were naturally up as well and we had to defend stoutly. 'But then Judgey hit a tremendous free-kick and Jota got an outstanding fourth goal. It keeps us going. We are in contention, be that for top or the play-offs, we are still in with a chance. Brentford players celebrate after Jota put the result beyond doubt in injury time to make it 1-4. Alan Judge scored Brentford's third goal, helping the Bees move up to fifth in the Championship. 'We can't worry about what other teams do. I don't know how many points we will need. We can only worry about ourselves and make sure we do all the things we need to do.' Striker Ross McCormack fired home a 67th-minute penalty for Fulham, who remain 20th - seven points above the drop zone. Fulham manager Kit Symons added: 'It is a little bit of a recurring theme which is very frustrating. We are playing good football, creating chances, we are on top in games but are not making it count. 'When you get those situations in football you need to make it count, you need to get a goal. A lot of the time we are chasing at the moment. You saw it at the Leeds game. Brentford goalkeeper David Button lifts his arms to the sky in celebration at his side's fourth goal. Fulham boss Kit Symons admits his team aren't yet safe from relegation in the Championship. 'Ultimately people just look at the score line at the end of the game and 4-1 looks like a hammering but the actual fact of the matter is that it wasn't. 'We were well in the game but obviously we didn't get anything out of it. We shot ourselves in the foot for the first two goals. 'You need to get and press the ball, by being goal side you think you are protecting the goal. They were a couple of great strikes from them for a few of the goals but we didn't get out and press the ball. 'We are not out of it (relegation trouble), we have work to do, especially with Millwall winning today.'
