A footballer died in a freak accident when he slid off the pitch after being tackled and slammed his head on the clubhouse wall. Ben Hiscox, 30, was playing a home game for Stoke Gifford United in Bristol on Saturday when he slipped on the wet ground following the tackle and crashed into the building. The striker was knocked unconscious and rushed to intensive care for urgent treatment. But, three days later, he suffered two seizures and died in hospital. Tragic: Ben Hiscox, 30, (pictured left and right with a teammate) died yesterday, three days after hitting his head on the clubhouse wall during a home football match at Stoke Gifford United in Bristol. His team-mates had gone to secure a 4-1 victory against Mangotsfields Sports, not realising their fellow player had been fatally injured. The defender involved in the tackle was too shaken to carry on playing, the club said. Tributes have since flooded in for Mr Hiscox, who was described by his club as a 'total legend'. Close friend and club vice-chairman Ben Bennett said: 'No one is blaming anyone. It was just a tragic accident.' The incident unfolded about 55 minutes into the game as Mr Hiscox and his opponent both charged down the right wing towards the ball. As Mr Hiscox crossed the ball into the box, he was tackled by the defender and hit the floor. He then slid into the clubhouse, where his head which thrown backwards against the wall. Mr Bennett said Mr Hiscox was knocked unconscious for five minutes but managed to move himself away from the pitch. Four ambulances then rushed to the scene to take him to Southmead hospital, Bristol. In hospital, Mr Hiscox was given medication to sedate him and, by Monday, was showing signs of improvement. He was moved out of intensive care but died the next day. Mr Hiscox, who worked in insurance, leaves behind a partner and six-year-old step-daughter. 'Total legend': Mr Hiscox (pictured left and right with who is believed to be his partner), who worked in insurance, leaves behind a partner and six-year-old step-daughter. Last night, around 100 people gathered at the ground to pay tribute to Mr Hiscox. The player had been part of the amateur club since he was a teenager. Mr Bennett, 33, said: 'He was a big part of the club and the team here. 'He had been part of the club for a long time, since he was about 16. He was a total legend and one of the nicest guys I have ever met. 'Everyone that met him liked him. He was one of the nicest blokes you could know. No one had a bad word to say about him. 'He just got on with everyone. It is a sad day for the club and we're all thinking of him and his family.' Speaking about the incident, he added: 'He was running towards the byline and he went to cross the ball into the box. Collision: The striker was knocked unconscious after hitting the wall (pictured above) and rushed to intensive care for urgent treatment. Accident: His team-mates went on to secure a 4-1 victory at the ground (pictured) against Mangotsfields Sports, not realising their fellow player had been fatally injured. 'A defender went running over - they were both going for the ball. They nudged and both went down. Ben slid across the ground and hit his back on the clubhouse. The forced whipped his head backwards. 'It was just a coming together. It was no different to any other tackle really. 'He was unconscious for about five minutes. When he came to he didn't know where he was. He was being sick and people were quite worried about him. 'He managed to get up and walk over to the sideline though. An ambulance arrived in about eight minutes - they drove on to the pitch to help him.' He added: 'No one thought it would have ended up like this. The club have been playing there for nearly 10 years and nothing even close to this has ever happened. Tributes: Floral tributes have been left at the scene for the 30-year-old. Around 100 people gathered on Tuesday night at the ground to pay tribute to Mr Hiscox. Never forgotten: One touching note left at the scene read: 'You will never be forgotten by anyone'. Mr Hiscox had been part of the club since he was a teenager. 'I've been in situations like this before - you think there isn't much to it. The game stopped for about half an hour. Some players wanted to carry on while others didn't. 'The defender in the tackle didn't play for the rest of the game. He was shaken up. The other club have been really good. They were calling and emailing to check that he was okay.' Tributes also came in from former club Bristol Manor Farm FC, where Mr Hiscox played between 2008 and 2010. Manor Farm's club secretary Andy Radford said: 'He was the life and soul of the party and a brilliant guy. 'He was not only a great goal scorer, but a great guy - if you were feeling down he would cheer you up. 'He is one of the players that you just don't forget; he was an absolute all-round great bloke. 'His infectious humour always brightened up your day and made you feel better. 'My condolences are with his family and friends. It is just such a terribly sad thing to have happened.'
