Three people are fortunate to be alive after a hot air balloon collided with a transmission tower and crashed to the ground during a training session in Russia. In the incident, which was captured on camera, the balloon catches the side of the tower and the basket, which carries three occupants, plummets to the ground. The instructor and two passengers were hospitalised with cuts and bruises but are all reported to be in a stable condition. The filmmaker captured the moment the balloon collides with the side of the transmission tower. The horrifying incident took place in the sky over Russia’s Dmitrov district. Recording from a car, the filmmaker follows three hot air balloons through the trees as they float in the sky. In the right hand corner of the screen a balloon can be seen edging closer to a transmission tower, but it seems it be moving in a controlled manner. Suddenly the balloon begins plummeting to the ground as the filmmaker continues to drive towards it. The balloon begins disintegrating and the basket, carrying three people, plummets towards the ground. Suddenly as the balloon passes by it collides with the tower, and despite the filmmaker’s distance from the accident, the tension on the balloon is visible. Continuing to drive closer to the balloon, the video maker captures it swaying in the wind – its tiny basket perched quite a distance above the ground. The car then makes its final approach towards it and suddenly the balloon begins plummeting as it starts to tear. The basket speeds up and hits the ground but luckily all of the passengers survive the accident. Within seconds the balloon appears to have disintegrated entirely and the basket begins to descend even quicker. Suddenly it crashes to the ground – and a scream can be heard from within side the filmmaker’s car. The video concludes with a number of people running over towards the fallen basket in an attempt to help the people on board as debris from the destroyed balloon rains down on them. The video concludes with people running over to the fallen basket and attempting to assist the passengers.
