Not one but two very familiar faces will be ranged against Andy Murray on the support benches as he revisits one of the most highly charged matches of his career. Tomas Berdych is his opponent in the semi-final of the Miami Open, the man Murray met — and eventually beat — at the same stage of the Australian Open in January. It was a match that had everything, with even the saintly Kim Sears caught uttering profanities in the direction of the Czech powerhouse. Andy Murray will have to cope with seeing two of his former team in the opposite corner in Miami. Fitness trainer Jez Green (left) and coach Danny Vallverdu left Murray to join Tomas Berdych's team. There is no love lost on the tour between the British No 1 and his Czech opponent Berdych (right) Much of the build-up to that fractious encounter centred on the fact it was a reunion between Murray and his close friend and assistant coach Dani Vallverdu, who had switched jobs to work with world No 9 Berdych. Now there is the added presence of Murray’s former fitness trainer Jez Green, with whom he spent so many painstaking hours becoming a super athlete, following Vallverdu into the Berdych camp while also working with the outstanding German teenager Alex Zverev. By the time they met in Melbourne there had been endless references to people failing to pull in the same direction when on Murray’s team. It is fairly clear that meant disagreements over training methods and other matters. Murray's fiance Kim Sears was caught shouting expletives towards Berdych at the Australian Open. Murray and Berdych meet at the net after the Brit's semi-final victory in Melbourne in January. Murray, who after one break in Melbourne pointedly celebrated straight at Vallverdu, admits the Australian match was difficult due to the intensity of the friendships. However, he insists that tension has now dissipated. ‘We chat most days when we’re in the locker room and stuff,’ said the Scot. ‘In Melbourne it was a bit awkward but now I feel I’m past that. We’ve moved on.’ He admits to not being close to Berdych. And that has not changed. Murray reached the last four in Key Biscayne after a three-set defeat of rising prospect Dominic Thiem.
