Following Raheem Sterling's interview on Wednesday, in which he said he was not ready to sign a new contract at Liverpool, blogger David Tyrer of Live4Liverpool gives the view from Merseyside. While I hate to use social media as a gauge of opinions, Raheem Sterling’s interview didn’t go down well at all. It was ill-timed and, regardless of what Sterling and his agent hoped, he didn’t come across very well. Some of his answers only fuelled the fire really. I’m hoping that that wasn’t the whole point, as we’ve seen these sorts of situations engineered by agents before. The interview has almost certainly changed the way the fans feel about him. There will be a lot of fans that are of the opinion: ‘let him go’. Obviously, with the caveat that we get our money’s worth! Raheem Sterling returns to Liverpool training after the international break and shakes hands with manager Brendan Rodgers. Sterling risked angering Liverpool fans after he said in an interview he was not ready to sign a contract. Sterling trains ahead of the weekend's game with Arsenal. It’s always disappointing when a young player gets his head turned, but there’s a sense of ungratefulness about the whole situation, considering how the club has nurtured him and paid him well throughout. Personally, I think he has the potential to be worth so much more than the £100,000-a-week contract he’s turned down. But it’s only that: potential. At present, he’s arguably in the top five best young players in the world but, obviously at his age, he’s also prone to bouts of inconsistency and prolonged poor form. He hasn’t been great recently and was awful against Man Utd. Sterling has been linked with a move to Arsenal - the team he is preparing to face at the weekend. Raheem Sterling played for England in the 4-0 Euro 2016 qualifier against Lithuania. And while I’d be willing to see the club give him £100k a week – possibly £120k a week - the club shouldn’t do everything it can to keep him. Definitely not. Liverpool fans have a popular mantra: no player is bigger than the club. Admittedly, we stretch the rules for truly great players (Suarez, a recent example) but Sterling is nowhere near. If he wants out, I’m sure the club will handle it the way they have before. Frustration over Sterling’s situation has been building for a while, and many fans are now of the belief that if he wants to go he’s welcome to. Personally, I don’t like players holding the club to ransom. He has as much chance of winning trophies here as he does anywhere (other than money-rich clubs such as Chelsea or Man City). Sterling did not have his best game in a Liverpool shirt during the defeat at Manchester United. Liverpool fans have a mantra that no player is bigger than the club. If Sterling was to move to Arsenal then it would not go down well with Liverpool fans. But if he does end up going, he’s worth a lot more than many established players. His ability is so raw but he has almost limitless potential. At the moment, we’ve seen it in fits and starts but even so, he’s easily worth £25-30 million. If I was FSG, I’d hold any interested club to ransom, though – double it. But a move to Arsenal wouldn’t go down well. Perhaps better than if it was Chelsea or Manchester United, but honestly there’s little Arsenal can offer that we can’t. Sure, they’re more financially stable but what – in terms of trophies – do Arsenal have to show for the last 12 years? Sterling speaks to the BBC and reveals he is not ready to sign a new contract. I think we’re somewhat ahead on that front. Much like Alexis Sanchez, any move to Arsenal will be more about location than anything else. People have drawn comparisons with when Suarez wanted to leave for Arsenal, but the situation is different. Suarez says he wanted Champions League football and we weren’t offering that at that time. Not only that, but Suarez was an established top-class player at the time, one of the best in the world. Sterling is purely potential and, given all the club have done for him (cliched, as that sounds), it makes little sense. If he’s going to be nurtured into the world-class talent he can become, it won’t happen at Arsenal. It may not necessarily happen at Anfield either, but a manager like Brendan Rodgers will give him the best shot of improving to that level over the next two to three years. You can read more from Live4Liverpool HERE and follow the Twitter account HERE.
