Police are hunting for three suspects who brazenly stole an ATM from a California gas station last Friday morning. CCTV footage shows the thieves in action at the Shell fuel stop along Ygnacio Valley Road in Walnut Creek. While one man distracts a cashier at the window, another leads a cable from the back of a white pickup to the cash machine. Once the cord is attached, the vehicle in the background speeds off and uproots the ATM from its mount. Sparks are caught flying into the air as the large device is dragged across the tarmac. The man who was previously  talking to the gas station clerk then runs towards the truck. He is seen wearing a bright red beanie, black pants, sweat top and sneakers. Although it is dark, he appears to load the ATM into the pickup before making a swift getaway with his crew. Caught on camera: Police are hunting for three suspects who brazenly stole an ATM from a California gas station last Friday morning. Swift moves: CCTV footage shows the thieves in action at the Shell fuel stop at 265 Ygnacio Valley Road in Walnut Creek, with one distracting a cashier at the window while another hooks up a cable to the ATM. Final moments: With the other end of the cord attached to a white pickup, the vehicle then speeds off, uprooting the ATM (far right) from its mount and dragging it across the tarmac. It is not clear where the gas station cashier was at this point. According to police, the theft occurred shortly after 5am when the area was pretty deserted. Two of the suspects have been described as white males with their escape vehicle  detailed as a white Ford F-250 or F-350 four-wheel drive. Anyone with information on the incident is asked to call Walnut Creek police at (925) 943-5844. Flying sparks: With the other end of the cord attached to a white pickup, the vehicle then speeds off, uprooting the ATM from its mount and dragging it across the tarmac. Still unidentified: Two of the suspects were described as white males, while the escape vehicle was detailed as a white Ford F-250 or F-350 four-wheel drive truck.
