Steve Bruce has promised his wife Janet he will go on a diet after unflattering paparazzi pictures of him on a Barbados beach were publicised. The Hull manager says he was 'disappointed' that the pictures were published and that he was baffled that anyone would be interested. Steve Bruce was looking larger than life after being snapped holidaying in Barbados with Alan Shearer. Bruce has promised his wife Janet he will slim down after seeing the unflattering snaps. Bruce was baffled that anyone would be interested in pictures of a 55-year-old on a beach. 'I don't think too many 55-year-olds look that good on a beach do they,' he said, 'but I have promised my good lady I will go on a diet. 'So watch out - I'm going to turn into the horriblest, most awkward b******d you have ever come across. 'I have had some letters saying it's nice to see someone relaxing in their own skin - not many mind!' Bruce also had an appetite for the debate about how Premier League clubs should do more to bring through English talent. FA chairman Greg Dyke recently outlined new proposals, including increasing the number on homegrown players in a squad of 25 to 12, in effort to improve the national team. And Bruce agreed with Dyke, before going on to question how his former club Manchester United, along wide Liverpool and Manchester City, recruit players. Bruce fells his former club Manchester United should do more to produce young English players. He said: 'It is a great debate. We have the Premier League which is a wonderful spectacle but we have to find a way to produce young players and we have one or two, but we would like a lot more. 'One thing that is staggering over the last 20 years is that we have invested millions in academies but are we producing enough players? 'When you look back, where are they? It is a hell of a debate. For me personally, we miss children playing football at school. 'If you are going to do a job properly, you have to look at the football club as a whole and see if we can produce a younger player.'
