George Boyd is the Barclays Premier League's hardest working player, clocking up 210.5 miles on the pitch this season - the equivalent of running from Burnley's Turf Moor ground to Crystal Palace's Selhurst Park in south London. The Burnley winger has run slightly further than Tottenham Hotspur midfielder Christian Eriksen. Walking the journey from Turf Moor to Selhurst would usually take 69 hours, according to Google Maps' estimations, but Boyd has managed it in less than 40 hours of playing time. George Boyd is the Barclays Premier League's hardest working player, clocking up 210.5 miles on the pitch. Boyd has run the distance between Burnley's Turf Moor ground and Crystal Palace's Selhurst Park. Tottenham Hotspur midfielder Christian Eriksen (right) is second in the list - 0.4 miles behind Boyd. Liverpool stand-in captain Jordan Henderson is also included in the Premier League's top 10 runners. Sean Dyche's side, sitting a point off safety, 18th in the Premier League, have three players in the top 10. Between them, the Burnley squad have run an incredible 2,172.3 miles this campaign. Boyd is joined by his team-mates Scott Arfield and David Jones in a list dominated by players from the bottom half of the table. Only Eriksen, Stoke City's Steven NZonzi, Liverpool's Jordan Henderson and Aaron Cresswell of West Ham feature from clubs  in the top half of the Premier League. Jake Livermore of Hull City, Sebastian Larsson from Sunderland and Newcastle United summer signing Daryl Janmaat make up the rest of the selection. The data was record by EA Sports PPI, which is used as the official player rating index of the Premier League. Scott Arfield, seen here getting away from Sergio Aguero, is another Burnley player to feature in the top 10. David Jones is another prolific Burnley runner as part of a team who have clocked up 2,172.3 miles. Steven NZonzi (left) is high up in the list as a key part of Stoke City's impressive season under Mark Hughes. And the league's two top runners come head-to-head on Saturday when Spurs and Eriksen travel to Turf Moor to face Burnley and Boyd. With the chance of at least temporarily escaping the relegation zone before Sunderland play Newcastle on Sunday, Boyd will be desperate to make sure that all that running does not count for nothing come the end of the season.
