Confidence in the QPR camp is high heading into Tuesday's crucial Barclays Premier League match at Aston Villa. QPR had lost 13 of 14 league away games before Saturday's vital 4-1 victory at West Brom. The win also saw the west London club to end a five-game losing run, while they remain in 19th place just three points adrift of safety. Chris Ramsey urges his players to calm down during the 4-1 win against West Brom on Saturday. Eduardo Vargas (centre) celebrates with his QPR team-mates after opening the scoring  against West Brom. 'It's a fantastic victory for us,' QPR coach Chris Ramsey said in Monday's press conference. 'The morale has been good, very professional. 'The players have this belief.' QPR want to build on that success in Tuesday's game at Villa Park. 'We are going to approach the game in the same way as we have done in the past,' Ramsey said. Ramsey believes QPR could have won previous games but lacked a finishing touch and also had shaky moments in defence. 'We are hoping that we can be as clinical as we were on Saturday,' he said. QPR were not able to profit from their latest win with an improved league position, but have revealed themselves to be a combative team that have a fighting chance of survival. Bobby Zamora scored QPR's third goal with an astounding lob from a narrow angle against West Brom. Ramsey issues instructions from the touchline as QPR boosted their survival hopes with a vital win. 'We want to put pressure on the teams around us,' Ramsey said. 'Everybody seems to be responding to what others are doing. 'The pressure is equal.' Villa currently hold the last position of safety but have lost their last two league games, including a 3-1 defeat at Manchester United at the weekend. 'I would rather be going into the game with the advantage they have rather than us,' Ramsey said. 'We have more pressure.' Even so, Ramsey knows Tim Sherwood's Villa side are feeling the heat. 'Villa are close to us and they are going to want three points to climb further up above the line,' Ramsey said. Ramsey will be coming up against friend and former colleague Tottenham Tim Sherwood on Tuesday. QPR have a sense of urgency to win at Villa and will have the same mindset when they host Premier League leaders Chelsea on Sunday. Ramsey believes his players can get a good result in both games. 'The Premier League is a league that things happen that you can't expect,' he said. Villa are not going to be at full strength, but Ramsey said: 'I'm sure that they will be able to fill those positions adequately, it's not going to be an advantage.' As for his friend Sherwood, who was put in charge of Villa in February, Ramsey said: 'I'm happy for him that he has gone to a big club like Aston Villa and wish him the best.'
