New York City police are searching for a man who was caught on a surveillance camera dumping an unconscious woman on a street in Queens over the weekend. The NYPD released the video Tuesday, along with a photo of the victim in the hospital in hopes of identifying her. The woman was critically injured and still has not regained consciousness. The grainy video, obtained from a store owner in the Richmond Hill section of Queens, shows a man dressed in a hooded sweatshirt and sweatpants dragging the limp body of a woman from the backseat of a parked car at around 12.30am Saturday. Discarded: New York City police are searching for a man who was caught on a surveillance camera dumping an unconscious woman on a street in Queens. The video shows a man dressed in a hooded sweatshirt and sweatpants dragging the limp body of a woman from the backseat of a car parked at 131st Street and Jamaica Avenue Saturday morning. Person of interest: The man walks back to the car, briefly glances at the woman's body on the ground, then gets behind the wheel and drives off. Paramedics arrived on the scene 20 minutes later and transported the victim to a hospital in critical condition. After making sure no one is watching, the man props the woman against the wall of a nearby building, but without his support she slumps to the ground face first. The man walks back to the car, briefly glances at the woman's body on the ground, then gets behind the wheel and drives off. The owner of the business whose camera captured the incident told WABC it was disheartening to see that the unidentified man left the woman all alone lying in the middle of the sidewalk at night instead of calling for help. Paramedics responded to the scene at the corner of 131st Street and Jamaica Avenue just before 1am and transported the unnamed victim to Jamaica Hospital, where she was placed on a ventilator. She was listed in critical but stable condition suffering from injuries to her legs and bruising. Jane Doe: Police have released a photo of the unidentified victim in the hospital (left) and an image of her clothes from Saturday (right) In a hospital photo released by police, the victim appears to be an African-American woman in her 20s. Her face is covered in scrapes, her left eye is bruised and there is a breathing tube in her mouth. The NYPD also disseminated a photo of the clothes the woman was wearing Saturday, including a dark-colored jacket, jeans and sneakers. Anyone with information on the woman or the man who left her in the street is being asked to call Crime Stoppers at (800) 577-TIPS.
