These hilarious images show the moment a frisky tortoise scupper his chances while trying to mate with a female. Clearly in the mood for love, the aroused reptile is seen beginning its painstakingly slow ascent on to the back of a female's shell. But instead of getting lucky, the blundering tortoise somehow manages to lose its balance, sending it toppling over onto its back. The moment things go south: The loved up male tortoise is seen here teetering before he falls on the ground. Shell we just leave it then? He gets no second chances and after failing to impress his mate and she leaves. Talk about lying down on the job -the poor fella looked positively 'shell-shocked' as it found itself on its back unable to get up. The amusing moment was caught on camera, by Ukranian photographer, Vadym Shevchenko, 34, at Kiev Zoo. And it seems the female tortoise wasn't willing to wait around as she was pictured leaving the clumsy Casanova on its back, in the mud. And to add insult to injury, he then had to spend a whole fifteen minutes desperately crawling across the grass of its enclosure before finally getting up. Vadym said: 'The tortoise seemed very eager to make his way over to the female, he was still incredibly slow but it was clear he had a purpose. 'Watching the tortoise attempt to mount the female was almost painful to watch, it took him so long, but we were all sort of curious to see what would happen. The tortoise casanovca made painfully slow progress in getting into position with his mate in the first place. Photographer Vadym Shevchenko said the tortoise seemed very determined even if he was unsuccessful. 'It looked about ready to start but then lost its balance when the female moved, which sent it it rolling onto its back, it really was very funny. 'It landed in a patch of mud behind him and its arms and legs were kicking quite frantically. 'The tortoise was wedged in the small patch of mud, I don't think it would been able to get back onto its feet without some help. Flat on his back, the tortoise lost his balance when the female moved away -  and he had to scrabble in the mud. She wasn't too upset though and went to find some food, leaving her unfortunate partner flailing on the ground. 'The female didn't seem to upset and she quickly moved off in search of food. 'I felt pretty sorry for the little guy, it tried so hard but failed at the last hurdle. 'It makes me wonder how they have stayed alive for so many millions of years. 'Seeing its face struggling in the mud was priceless, I always laugh out loud when I look back at these photographs.'
