Lyon moved back to the top of Ligue 1 for 24 hours at least after claiming a comfortable 3-1 victory at Guingamp. Nabil Fekir's goal and Alexandre Lacazette's penalty in the first half put Les Gones in control and Guingamp's hopes of a comeback took a blow when Christophe Kerbrat was given his marching orders before half-time. Clinton N'Jie struck just after the hour to put Hubert Fournier's side three goals to the good, meaning Claudio Beauvue's effort 10 minutes from time was only a consolation. Alexandre Lacazette celebrates after scoring a penalty for Lyon to send them top of Ligue 1 on Saturday. It was Lyon's first win in three and moved them back above Paris St Germain, who play third-placed Marseille in a much-anticipated encounter on Sunday evening. Two quick-fire second-half penalties saw Montpellier come from behind to beat Bastia 3-1 and move six points off the European places. Lucas Barrios and Anthony Mounier both struck from the spot within two minutes to cancel out Giovanni Sio's opener - with Morgan Sanson adding a third for the hosts in stoppage time. It was Lyon's first win in three and moved them back above Paris St Germain who play on Sunday. Lille got back to winning ways in emphatic fashion with a 3-1 triumph over strugglers Reims. Sebastien Corchia and Divock Origi put the hosts 2-0 up before Nicolas de Preville pulled one back for Reims but Nolan Roux added gloss to the scoreline at the Stade Pierre-Mauroy. At the other end of the table Rennes took a significant step closer to survival with a 3-0 win at Lorient, whose own hopes of avoiding the drop received another hit. Edson Mexer gave Rennes a 17th-minute lead and then goals either side of half-time from Sylvain Armand and Abdoulaye Doucoure ensured Philippe Montanier's men would be returning home with the points. Lille's French forward Nolan Roux is congratulated by teammates after scoring in their 3-1 win over Reims. Metz gave themselves at least some hope of staying up as Modibo Maiga's hat-trick earned them a 3-2 victory over relegation rivals Toulouse. Wissam Ben Yedder gave Toulouse a 21st-minute lead but Maiga - on loan from West Ham - quickly equalised, put Metz ahead before half-time and completed his treble early in the second period. Toulouse then had Marcel Tisserand sent off and could only manage a late consolation from Tongo Doumbia. Metz gave themselves at least some hope of staying up as Modibo Maiga's hat-trick earned them a 3-2 victory. Nice and Evian both picked up another point in their battles for survival following a 2-2 draw at the Allianz Riviera. Evian took a 18th-minute lead through Dany Nounkeu, Daniel Wass having wasted an earlier chance to put them in front from the penalty spot, but they had to rely on an Adrien Thomasson equaliser 12 minutes from time to earn a share of the spoils. Goals either side of half-time from Alexy Bosetti and Valentin Eysseric had turned the match in Nice's favour. Nice and Evian both picked up another point in their battles for survival with Adrien Thomasson scoring.
