Homesick Sam Tomkins insists it is not a foregone conclusion that he will return to Wigan when he cuts short his New Zealand Warriors stay at the end of the season. The 26-year-old England full-back is interesting his former club, where his brother Joel plays, and Wigan have an option to bring him back to the DW Stadium. When announcing his departure barely 18 months ago, Wigan announced they could re-sign Tomkins on a 'defined salary' on his return to Super League. Sam Tomkins has been released by the New Zealand Warriors after feeling homesick. And while Tomkins says it would 'be nice' to resume his Wigan career, he is tentatively exploring alternative options too. Asked where he would be playing next, Tomkins said: 'I've not worked that out just yet. The first thing was to sort it out over here that I could go back. 'Hopefully that'll be sorted in the not-too-distant future.' Wigan is where Tomkins launched his career, playing for the club from 2008 to 2013, so it is inevitable he should be linked with last season's Grand Final runners-up. 'That's where my brother's playing and that's where I'm from, but I'm open to other places. I'm just trying to work out what will be the best option for me,' he said. 'Wigan would be nice but I know it's not the only team I can go to.' Before the announcement on Wednesday morning that Tomkins will be on the move, Wigan chairman Ian Lenagan told Wigan Today: 'If he became available we would be very interested. 'We've got the first option. If it gets to the point where he is available it is in our hands. And I'll be delighted if that was the case.' Tomkins has been open with his current club about the reasons for wanting to leave. Rather than not settling into the New Zealand game, it is being apart from his family and friends that has been niggling away at Tomkins, unsettling him and leaving him longing for life back in the north of England. He told Sky Sports News: 'I've enjoyed every minute of being amongst that group but New Zealand is pretty far from Wigan, where all my family live, so I want to be back in England around my family. Tomkins celebrates winning the Super League Grand Final with Wigan in 2013 having spent five years with club. 'I'll be two years I've been away and to be able to go back and be around family and friends is what I'd rather be doing next year.' A replacement for Tomkins has already been found by New Zealand Warriors, with Kiwi international Roger Tuivasa-Sheck agreeing a three-year contract that will take effect from next season. Tuivasa-Sheck will join from Sydney Roosters, with New Zealand Warriors head coach Andrew McFadden describing the 21-year-old on Wednesday as 'a wonderful talent and a fantastic signing'. That has cleared the way for Tomkins, currently sidelined with a minor knee injury, to depart without causing excessive disruption 12 months before the end of his three-year contract. Tomkins joined the Warriors for a world record transfer fee - thought to be in the region of £700,000. 'They invested a lot into me to get me over here which I appreciate,' he said. 'They handled that brilliantly when I was coming and again equally so when I've asked if I can leave. 'It was tough because I feel like I owe them something and hope I can pay them back with another big year this year.' New Zealand Warriors managing director Jim Doyle said of Tomkins: 'He came here excited about testing himself in the NRL and also experiencing living in a new country but, in the end, Sam has found it too much of a challenge being away from home. 'It's disappointing that it has come to this but reluctantly we have accepted there is no option but to allow Sam to return to England.' Tomkins in action for the Warriors during the round one NRL match between against the Parramatta Eels.
