Kolo Toure has warned Raheem Sterling that leaving Liverpool could see him end up on the scrapheap at a big club, similar to the way that Jack Rodwell and Scott Sinclair did at Manchester City. Sterling stunned Liverpool earlier this week, giving an interview confirming that he has turned down a new £100,000-a-week contract and admitting he is 'quite flattered' by interest from Arsenal. Chelsea and Manchester City are also keen on English football's hottest property. But Toure, who used to play for  City with Rodwell and Sinclair, has warned his Anfield team-mate a move to one of European football's heavyweights may not be everything he has dreamed of. Raheem Sterling has been warned about the dangers of leaving Liverpool by his team-mate Kolo Toure. Toure compared Sterling's situation with that of Jack Rodwell (left) and Scott Sinclair joining Manchester City. Toure (centre) says Liverpool is the best place for Sterling to stay and continue his development as a player. After starring in Everton's midfield and making his England debut, Jack Rodwell was being linked with every big club around. Sir Alex Ferguson was known to be an admirer but Rodwell was snapped up by Manchester City for £12million. Repeated injury problems and the presence of Yaya Toure, David Silva, Samir Nasri and Javi Garcia saw his appearances limited, while Fernandinho arrived for £30m the next summer. After just seven league starts in two years, Rodwell moved on to relegation-threatened Sunderland for £10m. It was a similar story for Scott Sinclair. After powering Swansea City's promotion to the Premier League and scoring eight times in the top flight, Chelsea youth product Sinclair moved to City for £8m. But he too struggled with the competition in City's squad and moved to West Bromwich Albion on loan last season. He found it hard to break into the team there and returned to City before heading out on loan again to Aston Villa in January where he has found some form. Rodwell joined City in a £12million deal in 2012, while Sinclair made the same move from Swansea City for an £8m fee later that summer. The English pair made just nine Barclays Premier League appearances between them across two seasons at the Etihad Stadium. Rodwell joined relegation-threatened Sunderland last summer to end his City nightmare while Sinclair is trying to rebuild his career at Aston Villa. Toure says Sterling could be making a similar mistake by leaving Anfield. 'Both Rodwell and Sinclair went to a club where there is big competition and didn't play,' Toure said. 'If Raheem left Liverpool he wouldn't be sure to start games. Make a mistake or don't score for two games and he will be on the bench. There is no messing at clubs like that.' Brendan Rodgers used his pre-match press conference ahead of Saturday's trip to Arsenal to reiterate that Sterling was not for sale, and Toure sees Liverpool as the perfect place for the 20-year-old to continue his development. 'I'm not surprised there's speculation because everybody would want to have a player like him,' he told the Liverpool ECHO. 'But he needs to stay here. Liverpool is a great place for him. Sterling stunned Liverpool this week, giving an interview confirming that he had turned down a new deal. The likes of Chelsea, City and Arsenal would have big competition in their squads for a place. 'This is definitely the best place for him to continue his development. At Liverpool, he's beginning to be one of the most important players. He's playing every week. 'If he went to another club there would be big challenges he would face. He wouldn't be the most important player.' Sportsmail revealed on Thursday that Chelsea had joined the race to sign England star Sterling, with the Premier League leaders wanting to be kept informed of any developments in his contract situation. Real Madrid and Bayern Munich are also monitoring the developments in his stand-off at Anfield. Rodwell made just seven Premier League starts for City during his two-year spell before leaving the club. The former Everton man now plays for relegation-threatened Sunderland after a tough time at City. Sinclair's spell was even more difficult, he made just two league starts for City before moving out on loan. Sinclair is on loan at Aston Villa as he looks to rebuild his reputation as a young England talent. Doubts over Arsenal’s ability to fund a move have seen their interest questioned, but they are confident they have the financial firepower to compete for him with the likes of Chelsea and City. Liverpool boss Rodgers said on Thursday: ‘He’s got two-and-a-half years to go on his deal and he’s not going anywhere in the summer. 'I cannot speak for the owners but I have a good idea of what they would do. I know them well enough and for me it would not happen. Liverpool are one of the superpowers of football and the owners have made it clear that money doesn’t come into it. If the club doesn’t want to sell, it won’t sell, it’s as simple as that. Money has never been the objective for the club. ‘Whatever player - Raheem or anybody - it would always be on the terms of the club. ‘He still has two-and-a- bit years left of his deal so it’s not something we’re overly concerned about. I’m confident that at the end of the season we’ll find the solution.’ Brendan Rodgers has said Sterling is going nowhere this summer despite the speculation over his future. Sinclair spent more time on the bench than the pitch at City, and Toure thinks it could be similar for Sterling.
