An unknown man's theft of a Texas neighborhood's wild peacock was caught on camera by surveillance video as he roughly handled the beautiful bird. Residents of Beckley Club Estates in Dallas, Texas, say that they saw a man approach a male peacock, who was in the middle of its mating ritual and had unfurled its full plumage, before quickly snatching him up on Saturday. Footage from the home of Lisa Solis shows the thief grab the animal by both its claws before shoving him in his black SUV around 7pm. Residents of a Dallas neighborhood saw a man approach a male peacock, who was in the middle of its mating ritual and had unfurled its full plumage, before quickly snatching him up on Saturday. The man is seen bending down and picking up the bird by its claws before shoving it into his black Chevy Tahoe with its feathers sticking out of the door. Solis's neighbor Tisha Crear said she saw the event, and rushed out of the house and yelled at the man, but could only watch as he drove off with half of the peacock's feathers hanging out of the door. Ms Crear said that she had heard peahens screaming before the incident when the bird, the largest and oldest male peacock of those that live in the subdivision, was stolen, according to NBC Dallas. Ms Solid called the theft and aggressive treatment of the bird animal cruelty. 'Do I need to sit on the porch with a shotgun or what do I have to do? Because we are going to protect the peacocks,' Ms Crear said, holding a feather from the stolen bird. Residents of the neighborhood, where peacocks have lived for the past 20 years, filed a report to the police about the missing animal. Surveillance video also shows the black Chevy Tahoe driver stalking the birds for 20 minutes before he grabbed his target. The suspect is described as a Hispanic man who was wearing shorts, a white shirt and a baseball cap. Peacocks have lived in the neighborhood for 20 years, according to the Dallas Morning News. Residents, who have reported the incident to police, are also worried about the birds' long term survival if the peacock patriarch is not able to return and fertilize eggs. Neighbors have previously organized to protect the animals following one resident's complaint.
