Bayern Munich captain Philipp Lahm could make his first Bundesliga start since returning from an ankle injury by appearing against Borussia Dortmund on Saturday. Midfielders Franck Ribery (ankle), Arjen Robben (stomach) and Javi Martinez (knee), and defender David Alaba (knee) are all out, coach Pep Guardiola added on Friday. He was not yet sure about defender Holger Badstuber (hip), while midfielder Thiago Alcantara could play 'maybe a few minutes' as he recovers from long-standing knee injuries. Bayern Munich captain Philipp Lahm has made a full recovery from a broken ankle. Pep Guardiola will be without a number of his first-team stars for his side's match against Dortmund. Lahm has made only two substitute appearances for Bayern since breaking his ankle in training on November 18, and Guardiola attempted to take some pressure off his captain by warning that the whole team has to work together to compensate for missing players. 'Robben is great in one on ones, also coming in, scoring goals from the side. Ribery too. Without them, we don't have players for one on ones, so we have to pass the ball,' Guardiola said. 'The players have to know, we need more, more, more. We need 100 per cent.' Alaba became the latest on Bayern's injury list when he tore a left knee ligament while on duty for Austria. The left back is expected to miss the rest of the season. 'It's not good news for anyone,' said Guardiola. 'Up to now, we've coped, and carried on. And we have to do that now.' Arjen Robben (centre) and Franck Ribery (right) have been ruled out of Bayern's upcoming match. David Alaba is likely to be out for the rest of the season after sustaining a knee injury. While at pains to state the injuries were not an excuse, he pointed out that they were mounting at a crucial point of the season with Bundesliga, German Cup and Champions League games coming up. Bayern has seven games in the next 22 days. 'The squad Bayern have put together is there to fight for all the titles. No excuses. If we don't win, it's our fault,' Guardiola said. 'We're happy to play in April with all the (title) possibilities still open. Now every game is a final. Earlier in the season if you don't win you carry on. Now if you lose, that's it. We don't want any more injuries.' When asked if this was the most difficult time he had faced in his second season at Bayern, Guardiola replied, 'Yes, definitely.' He was nonetheless looking forward to Saturday's visit to Dortmund, which has struggled this season and was bottom at the beginning of February. 'The quality of the side, the coach, the team, is higher than (indicated) by their table position. The quality is still there,' Guardiola said. 'The game is like a final. It's not a final, but we're fighting to defend our title, and Dortmund are fighting for the Champions League or Europa League.' He added: 'My experience with Dortmund and (coach Jurgen) Klopp is of their pressing, their attacking game. It's good that way. It will be a super, super game.'
