One of the world’s leading distance runners and a regular training partner of Mo Farah’s claims to be living in fear of his life after raising allegations with the authorities in his native Uganda that a coach has been sexually abusing female runners; some as young as 15. Moses Kipsiro, who successfully defended his Commonwealth Games 10,000m title in Glasgow last year, told Sportsmail this week of the day five female runners came to him for help; and the death threats he says he has subsequently received after reporting the allegations to his national federation and the police. Only on Monday Kipsiro passed details of the death threats – sent anonymously via text messages – to police officers in Kampala, Uganda. But he told me he will have to leave Uganda with his wife and three children if the police fail to investigate his claims. ‘I will have to protect my family,’ he said. Moses Kipsiro raised allegations that a coach has been abusing female athletes, some as young as 15. Kipsiro is a regular training partner of British long-distance running legend Mo Farah (above) The story was first brought to the attention of Sportsmail by Pace Sports Management, who also represent double Olympic champion Farah. Speaking this week, 28-year-old Kipsiro said he was approached last year by five female athletes at a training camp for the African Cross-Country Championships. Kipsiro says they went to him as the senior athlete and captain of the team – he holds national records and has won medals at world level as well as three Commonwealth golds – and complained a coach had been raping them. ‘According to the girls he would tell them he wanted to get them pregnant and then have an abortion, because by doing that it would widen their private parts and enable them to run like Kenyans,’ Kipsiro told me. ‘I went to the federation and I went to the police. But so far nothing has happened. Apart from the fact that I have received these death threats. My brother has also been threatened and arrested. And I have been dropped from the team. I did not run in the World Cross Country Championships in China last weekend because of this.’ Officials at the Ugandan Athletics Federation deny the allegations but details of the story have appeared in a Ugandan newspaper, which reportedly interviewed three of the female runners who had spent a month at the training camp in Kapchorwa in March last year. Kipsiro (right) is the 10,000m Commonwealth champion after defending his title in Glasgow last summer. Kipsiro beat Kenya's Josphat Kipkoech Bett (left) and Canadian Cameron Levins at Hampden Park. ‘He would wake up in the middle of the night and come to our room,’ one athlete is reported to have told the Daily Monitor. ‘He threatened to chase us from camp if we ever said anything or turned him down. We didn’t have any female coach to run to. It was horrible. On some days, he would call one or two of us to his nearby house. If you refused to do what he wanted, he would beat you up.’ In the same article team captain Kipsiro is quoted. ‘I confronted him but that resulted in a big wrangle,’ he said. ‘What I discovered after engaging the girls was so shocking. One day he gathered the junior women’s team in a secret place and told them that to run well, they must have sex or give birth. His theory was that if a woman’s private parts are wide, their legs move easily. I was so shocked to hear such silly talk. Unfortunately some people believe he is a good coach. They continue to defend him.’ UAF general secretary Beatrice Ayikoru is quoted in the same story denying the allegations. ‘Those accusations against the coach are false,’ she said. ‘I met the athletes in Kampala and no one mentioned such a thing.’ Kipsiro, pictured here at the 2012 Olympic Games in London, says he may have to leave Uganda. It is understood a letter has been sent by the runners to both the UAF and officers at the Central Police Station making the allegations. According to Pace Sports Management, who were in contact with the UAF this week about the issue, the allegations were investigated by officials as well as the police but as yet the result of the investigation has not been released. In an email to Sportsmail this week Ayikoru once again rejected the claims as did a spokeswoman for the UAF. ‘The sexual allegations were levied last year,’ she said. ‘The federation contacted police. As a control method, it also established an independent commission formed of people who have ever handled cases of abuse (three out of four were women). ‘The allegations were investigated by both police and the team established by the federation. There was no evidence of any sexual misconduct.’ Sportsmail responded by asking if Kipsiro has been disciplined and if the UAF had published their report into the allegations. Ayikoru did not respond. Kipsiro, meanwhile, says he was not only prevented from participating in last weekend’s World Cross Country Championships but was also dropped for last year’s World Half Marathon Championship. Police officers attempted to arrest Kipsiro’s brother at the Ugandan Cross Country Championships, only for Kipsiro and other athletes to intervene and stop Simon Ayeko Nawari being led away. There have also been claims of shots being fired at Kipsiro’s brother, and another athlete being murdered. On Monday, Ayeko Nawari was taken into custody, with Kipsiro’s allies claiming he is simply a victim of harassment. ‘When those five girls came to me I had to do something,’ Kipsiro said this week. ‘And I went to the Central Police Station after receiving the death threats on my phone last week. They were anonymous messages but the police believe they can trace the number. We will see. If something does not happen I will have to leave Uganda.’ Sorry we are not currently accepting comments on this article.
