Chris Ramsey has hailed Tony Pulis as one of the best British coaches in the country, but insists he doesn’t need to take any tactical tips from the experienced relegation dodger. Ramsey’s QPR, who face Pulis’s West Brom at the Hawthorns on Saturday, are 19th in the Barclay’s Premier League table – four points adrift of Sunderland in 17th. The R’s have taken just four points since the turn of the year and could do with a season climax reminiscent of Pulis’s 2013-14 campaign with Crystal Palace, in which they took 17 points from their final eight games to avoid the drop. Chris Ramsey praised Tony Pulis ahead of his sides crucial clash with West Brom in the Premier League. Indeed, Pulis was linked with the vacant QPR managerial post after Harry Redknapp’s departure in February, but many of the Loftus Road faithful turned their noses up at his perceived long-ball tactics. ‘I think Tony Pulis would be a good fit anywhere because he is a quality coach,’ Ramsey said when asked about the speculation. ‘He maximises what he does with his players so he would be a good fit anywhere. Not just here, at any club. ‘I think Tony gets a very bad reputation for the way he plays. What he does is he goes into places, assesses what the players need and gets the best out of them. I would say he is one of the top British coaches in the country.’ Ramsey claims Pulis 'is one of the best coaches in Britain,' but says that he won't be asking for his advice. While Ramsey admits he is encouraged by the likes of Pulis, he firmly believes his own tactical acumen is the reason he was entrusted with keeping QPR in the top flight. ‘I take inspiration from Tony because I respect him as a man and as a coach and as a manager,’ Ramsey continued. ‘I’ll take any advice from any coach in any league, because I realise how tough the job is. ‘As far as tactics are concerned, I don’t think I’d be looking at anybody else and asking for any advice. I’ve been put in the job for a reason, the reason being that the people who’ve put me in think I know what I’m doing. ‘Apart from a dodgy 20 minutes at Crystal Palace, I think we’ve been in every game, especially against the top teams. We were extremely disappointed we didn’t get anything against Everton. But ultimately it’s about the money ends of the ground, isn’t it? And we haven’t been good enough at both ends when it really counted.’ The Queens Park Rangers boss knows that his side can't afford to slip up anymore if they want to stay up.
