The Red Wings' Drew Miller says he's eager to hit the ice again just a day after receiving a cut that could have cost him his eyesight. 'I feel very blessed the skate didn't hit my eye,' Miller said at practice on Wednesday. 'Very lucky' Skating with a full face mask during practice, the Detroit forward openly bore a gruesome red wound that required 50 to 60 stitches to close along multiple layers of skin, the Detroit Free Press reports. Gruesome: Miller was left with a scar across his eye, but reportedly didn't suffer any damage to his eyesight after another player cut him across his face. The incident occurred shortly after a faceoff during the first period of Tuesday's game between the Red Wings and the Senators. While battling for the puck, Ottawa's Mark Stone lost his balance and lifted his right skate backwards in an arc, catching Miller just under his visor. Stone's skate cut Miller along his right cheek and again just below his eyebrow. Miller exited the ice under his own power before medical staff rushed him to receive treatment, including stitches. Though he has a gash that runs across both sides of his eyelid and bruising below his right eye, Miller said his vision was largely unaffected. 'Right now, it's just dealing with the cut and the stitches and the soreness,' Miller explained. 'Other than that, my eye is good, and when I got on the ice today, I felt pretty good.' Freak accident: While falling to the ice, Ottawa's Mark Stone lifted his skate and struck Miller under the visor with the blade. Stitched up: Twitter user Red Wing Memes published a photo of the Red Wings forward with the freshly stitched wound. Second opinion: A second angle showed Stone losing his balance while fighting for the puck with the Red Wings' Luke Glendening. Bruiser: Miller said he wanted to come back for the third period after being stitched up, though the team said he will likely return Thursday against Boston. My Fox Detroit reports Miller had wanted to return during the third period of the game, which Detroit lost 2-1. Red Wings Coach Mike Babcock said Miller will likely have a 'big-time scar' but to expect the winger to be on the ice Thursday. The team will need Miller, who has played in 159 straight games, as it tries to secure the final guaranteed playoff spot in the Atlantic division.
