Brendan Rodgers has insisted that Raheem Sterling will be going nowhere this summer and that he is 'relaxed' about the star's stalled contract talks. The Liverpool manager was reacting after the 20-year-old admitted in a television interview that he is not yet ready to sign the new £100,000-a-week contract tabled by the club, fuelling speculation that he could leave Anfield this summer. But although Rodgers admitted the interview was conducted without the club's consent and 'surprised us all', he said Sterling was still young and 'sometimes makes mistakes'. He added that Liverpool were a 'superpower' in world football and didn't have to sell their star assets before saying that Sterling just has to 'concentrate on his football'. Raheem Sterling looks relaxed during Liverpool's training session on Thursday morning despite uncertainty over his future at the club following revelations made in a TV interview. Sterling shakes hands with his manager Brendan Rodgers during the Melwood training session. Sterling appeared to give his manager a pat on the back as they talked during training. Rodgers issues instructions to Sterling as Liverpool prepare for Saturday's match with Arsenal. Sterling's comments in the BBC interview have heightened speculation he will depart Anfield this summer. Sterling admitted he was 'flattered' by interest from Arsenal as his contract talks are put on hold. Sterling and Daniel Sturridge share a joke on the training ground during Thursday morning's session. The players were in a relaxed mood despite the continued speculation over Sterling's future at the club. The England international cast doubt on his Liverpool future in an interview with the BBC. Sterling himself looked relaxed as he trained at Melwood on Thursday morning, sharing a joke with Daniel Sturridge as Rodgers and his staff put the team through its paces ahead of the Premier League trip to the Emirates to face Arsenal. Sterling also shook hands with his manager as the players reconvened after the international break. And in his press briefing ahead of the Arsenal match, Rodgers said: 'The concentration a few weeks back was to purely focus on his football, and help him continue with his development at the place he’s made great strides over last couple of years. 'The last time we sat down with the player and his representatives that was the intention. 'Raheem has come out and made his feelings clear on that, and hopefully will continue to focus on his football until the end of the season. 'What he said absolutely underpins everything we’re trying to achieve here. Raheem says his ambition is to win trophies, and that’s perfectly aligned with what we’re trying to do.' Rodgers added: 'This is Liverpool, one of the great clubs of the football world. It is an honour for him to play at a club like Liverpool and he understands that. 'What he’s saying is that he’s got two-and-a-half years left; he’s quite relaxed as I am, he just wants to concentrate on football. Sterling trains alongside Brazilian Philippe Coutinho as the Liverpool team get ready for Saturday's match. 'I'm quite relaxed on it. It's part of the modern game. People who look after players have different ways of working. 'The focus is purely on the football. He has been involved with the first team for two-and-a-half years and is the player he is today is because of this environment and what we’ve created. 'He's got a lot of improvement to do and this is the best place for him to do it. 'He's not going anywhere in the summer. The focus on trying to make him the best player we can.' When asked whether money talked in situations like this, Rodgers replied: 'This club has shown that’s not the case. Liverpool is one of the superpowers of football and the owners have made it clear and we’ve seen it before that money doesn’t come into it. 'If the club doesn’t want to sell it won’t sell. That’s that case with any player, Raheem or anybody else. 'It’s about continuing to nurture a young player so he can be consistently playing at the top if his game. 'For Raheem it’s purely about the football and he’s made it clear that he’s happy here. Trying to put off all the talk. He’s a boy who loves his football. He understands and respects the opportunity that he’s had. 'Still has two-and-a-bit years left of his deal so it’s not something we’re overly concerned about. Hopefully we’ll get it sorted out.' Sterling and Emre Can leap during one of the training ground exercises on Thursday morning. Sterling takes his turn on the ladders as Liverpool prepare for Saturday's vital match against Arsenal. Rodgers did concede that the interview was carried out without the club's permission: 'There was no permission by the club, it was something that surprised us all. 'He’s a young player who has to learn and sometimes they makes mistakes. Our relationship is strong. He will learn as time goes on. We all make mistakes, especially when you’re young. England international Sterling confessed in the BBC interview that he was 'quite flattered' to be linked with Arsenal and added that he used to dream of playing abroad. Despite turning down the six-figure contract, described by Rodgers a few weeks ago as an 'incredible offer', Sterling insisted he is not a money-grabber. 'It's not about the money at all,' Sterling said. 'It's never been about money. I talk about winning trophies throughout my career. That's all I talk about. 'I don't talk about how many cars I'm going to drive, how many houses I've got. I just purely want to be the best I can be. Sterling denied he was a 'money-grabber' in the interview, saying he was only concerned about football. 'I don't want to be perceived as a money-grabbing 20-year-old. 'I try to kill it off, but I don't think the public can see it that way. 'I think they just see it as this 20-year-old boy being greedy. 'I just want to take the time to think about what I've achieved in my career so far, where I need to go and what I need to do to get better as a player. 'Everyone's dream growing up is seeing themselves in an away kit somewhere in a sunny country. But, in reality, I'm happy to be playing for Liverpool and trying to win trophies.' Liverpool find themselves five points behind Manchester United in the battle for the top four places. Rodgers organises the footballs during Liverpool's Thursday morning training session. Mario Balotelli, who trained wearing a red and white snood, in action at Melwood. Lazar Markovic tries to run the ball away from Lucas during a practice match in Thursday's training. Joe Allen finds himself sandwiched by Mario Balotelli and Sterling during the game. Rodgers shakes the hand of Alberto Moreno as Liverpool get ready for their encounter with Arsenal. Rodgers gives Coutinho a pat on the back as the Reds make their preparations for the trip to Arsenal. Captain Steven Gerrard pings one of his trademark passes in the training session at Melwood. April 4 Arsenal (A) April 8 Blackburn Rovers (A) FA Cup Sixth Round Replay. April 13 Newcastle United (H) April 18 Hull City (A) April 25 West Bromwich Albion (A) May 2 Queens Park Rangers (H) May 9 Chelsea (A) May 16 Crystal Palace (H) May 24 Stoke City (A) 'If, at that point in time [last season], I was offered a contract, I most definitely would have signed straight away, probably for far less money than being said now. 'I just think the timing was a bit off.' While Sterling's contract negotiations will now be postponed until the summer at least, Liverpool need to reignite their top four challenge at the Emirates. Their ambitions to qualify for next season's Champions League took a hammer blow when they lost 2-1 at home to Manchester United before the international break, opening up a five-point gap between the two rivals. Rodgers said he had no fresh fitness concerns ahead of the trip to north London. Raheem Sterling statistics from the present season.
