She's a professional equestrienne and was happy to have a go at wheelchair rugby, a sport nicknamed 'murder ball', during last September's Invictus Games. Now Zara Tindall, 33, has turned her hand to barrel-pulling - and laughingly pretended to pull her 16st 6ft rugby player husband Mike along while striking a pose for the cameras. The moment came during a charity event to mark the end of personal trainer Rob Edmond's marathon barrel-roll from Perthshire to Wiltshire. Taking the strain: Zara straps herself into Mr Edmond's barrel-pulling harness. Pull! Zara pretends to move off while husband Mike beams from his perch on the barrel. Edmond, who set off nine days and 517 miles ago, rolled the whisky barrel for 12 hours a day, only stopping to sleep and take part in comedy gigs at pubs along the way. The Bell's Barrel of Laughs trek also saw Edmond, who was the personal trainer on ITV's The Biggest Loser, joined by comedians including Fred MacAulay, Mark Dolan and Rufus Hound. Actress Joanna Lumley launched the challenge at the Blair Athol Distillery last week, while Zara was at the finish line at the Tedworth House Help for Heroes recovery centre. Tindall, meanwhile, joined Edmond for the final leg of the challenge - running with the personal trainer as he approached the finish line. 'It was good,' said the 36-year-old afterwards. 'I would like to say that I did all the hard work but I just got the glory run in with him. All smiles: Zara, who gave Mr Edmond a hug as he arrived (right), certainly appeared to enjoy the experience. Good effort: Mr Edmond, centre, rolled the barrel 517 miles from Perthshire to Wiltshire. Joking around: Zara, who is working towards 2016's Olympic Games, struck a series of poses in the harness. Support: Zara had turned out to watch Mr Edmond and husband Mike cross the finish line. 'I think the most impressive thing about him is that he is just a bit of a joker and he was telling stories about putting deep heat on people's hats to make their eyes water. 'He was talking about keeping his mind entertained and having a laugh. The one thing you see with people who have been around the military is that when they are in adversity or a tough place they always know how to have a laugh and how to make time pass.' Edmond, whose fundraising drive was also supported by Marston's Pubs, added: 'It's been a monumental challenge but we've made it and the support has been fantastic. 'We can't thank the British public enough.' Tindall, who recently appeared in the Bear Grylls endurance show Mission Survive, praised the work of Help for Heroes, which is set to benefit from Edmond's feat. 'Tedworth House is a pretty impressive place and looks the bees knees, and it is great to see how the money helps,' he said. He also revealed that he hopes to take on some charity challenges of his own. 'I am always quite keen to do any sort of charity challenges now that I am retired,' he said. 'I am doing a quadrathlon later this year, which I am a little bit worried about. I have always enjoyed this type of challenge, so you never know.' Achievement: Mr Edmond, who managed to cover 60 miles a day, completed the feat in just nine days. Heavy: Mr Edmond ran the entire way and rolled the whisky barrel for up to 12 hours a day. Helping out: Mike Tindall ran the final few miles alongside Mr Edmond. Beneficiary: The money raised by Mr Edmond will be donated to Help for Heroes.
