Neil Redfearn is considering his position as manager of Leeds United after the club suspended his assistant Steve Thompson on Thursday. Leeds took two months to appoint Thompson but he was told in a letter from director of football Nicola Salerno yesterday morning that he was be suspended until the end of the season effectively ending his time at Elland Road after 105 days. Thompson is understood to have been told that he will be suspended until his contract expires at the end of the season. He has also been informed that an option to renew his deal will not be taken up by the club. Leeds United assistant manager Steve Thompson (left) has been suspended by the club. Thompson's suspension has left manager Neil Redfearn considering his future at Elland Road. A club statement read: 'The director of football Nicola Salerno, has today (April 2) suspended the assistant coach Steve Thompson from his duties at the club. This is an internal matter and the club will make no further comment on this internal issue.' Redfearn, the club's third coach of the season, took training before attending a delayed press conference and said: 'It’s become difficult for me. It’s not ideal timing. It’s not helped. I’ve got to have a good think about my future now. It undermines everything. We have put things together me and Steve. Before it was a no brainer for me to stay on, not so much now. 'I love this club, I was brought up on Leeds United but this situation is a difficult one for me. 'Thommo was informed this morning through a letter. He’s been suspended - for what, I don’t know. You’d have to find that out from the club. I don’t understand why he has been suspended. I’m bitterly disappointed. It’s a difficult one for me to take, I can’t think for one minute why someone who has been part of this success has been sacked. 'Me and Steve were the ideal partnership, he’s been great for me and I’m bitterly disappointed that he’s not here.' Redfearn’s contract is also up at the end of the season and club president Massimo Cellino is suspended until May 3. Sol Bamba heads home in a recent win for the Whites at Fulham's Craven Cottage. Leeds sit 13th in the Championship table but were unbeaten in March and take on Blackburn Rovers on Saturday. It is also understood that Redfearn is under pressure not to select top scorer Mirco Antenucci who will trigger a bonus clause in his contract should he score two more goals. Thompson is taking advice from the LMA while Salerno's own position is thought to be open to review at the end of the season.
