Brendan Rodgers will deliver his weekly briefing to the media on Friday afternoon, previewing the showdown with Arsenal on Saturday and discussing the future of Raheem Sterling. The young England star has moved a step closer to an Anfield exit after revealing in a TV interview that he is not ready to sign a new contract at Anfield. Sterling, 20, has been offered a new £100,000-a-week contract to stay at the club but admitted he is 'flattered' by interest from Arsenal. Follow the press conference as it happens from 2pm. Host commentator. And with that, Brendan Rodgers has brought to a close the broadcast section of his press conference. The rest of his quotes will now be embargoed until tonight. In summary, then, Rodgers has insisted that Raheem Sterling will not be going anywhere this summer and that focus for the moment is purely on his football. The manager said he was 'relaxed' about his contract situation and that Liverpool are a 'superpower' of world football and don't have to sell their best players. He did admit, however, that Sterling's interview was conducted without the prior consent of the club and 'took them by surprise.' 'The concentration a few weeks back was to purely focus on his football, and help him continue with his development at the place he’s made great strides over last couple of years. 'The last time we sat down with plays and representatives that was the intention. 'Raheem has come out and made his feelings clear on that, and hopefully continue to focus on his football until the end of the season. 'What he said absolutely underpins everything we’re trying to achieve here. Raheem says it’s his ambition is to win trophies, and that’s perfectly aligned with what we’re trying to do. 'This is Liverpool one of the great clubs of football world. 'It is an honour for him to play at a club like Liverpool and he understands that. 'What he’s saying is that he’s got two and a half years left, he’s quite relaxed as I am, he just wants to concentrate on football. 'I'm quite relaxed on it. It's part of modern game. People who look after players have different ways of working. The focus is purely on the football. He has been involved with the first team for two and half years and player he is today is because of environment and what we’ve created. 'He's got a lot of improvement to do and this is the best place for him to do it. 'He's not going anywhere in the summer. The focus on trying to make him the best player we can. Does money talk? 'This club has shown that’s not the case. Liverpool is one of the superpowers of football and the owners have made it clear and we’ve seen it before that money doesn’t come into it. If the club doesn’t want to sell it won’t sell. That’s that case with any player, Raheem or anybody else. 'It’s about continuing to nurture a young player so he can be consistently playing at the top if his game. 'For Raheem it’s purely about the football and he’s made it clear that he’s happy here. Trying to put off all the talk. He’s a boy who loves his football. He understands and respects the opportunity that he’s had. 'Still has two and a bit years left of his deal so it’s not something we’ve overly concerned about. Hopefully we’ll get it sorted out. On the interview... 'There was no permission by the club, it was something that surprised us all. He’s a young player who has to learn and sometimes they makes mistakes. Our relationship is strong. He will learn as time goes on. We all make mistakes, especially when you’re young.' Moving back onto the subject of Saturday's match with Arsenal, Rodgers says he is targeting 'at least a point' from the trip to the Emirates. 'We go into the game happy to play our game.' He adds: 'We need to keep the ball better, we need to be technically better.' Rodgers has confirmed that Sterling did not have permission from the club to do the BBC interview. 'It surprised us all,' he admits. 'He will learn we all make mistakes in life, especially when you are young.' Then swiftly back to the burning issue: 'Liverpool is one of the superpowers of football. The money doesn't come into it. If the club doesn't want to sell, it doesn't sell. Money has never been the objective. 'For Raheem, it's purely about the football. What the kid is trying to do is put off talk about him being all about money.' The conversation moves on from Sterling to Saturday's match with Arsenal. Liverpool have no new injury worries, with Jordan Henderson back in the squad and Lucas available to start. Reflecting on the damaging 2-1 loss to Manchester United before the international break, which left Liverpool five points behind their rivals, Rodgers says: Obviously it was a disappointing result. We have to make sure we perform [against Arsenal].' On the contract talks: 'He has two and a half years left on his deal, he's going nowhere in the summer' On Sterling being linked with Arsenal, Rodgers says: 'Arsenal is a great club, but this is Liverpool. 'I'm quite relaxed on it. It's part of the modern game. Raheem still has a lot of improvements to make. This is great place for him.' And the subject is raised straight away, with Rodgers saying: 'The focus is purely on his football. That's my only concentration. He is at a place where he's made giant strides over the last few years. 'Raheem's ambition is to win trophies and that's perfectly aligned with what we're trying to do. This is one of the great clubs.' Brendan Rodgers has just arrived to begin his press briefing... Laurie Whitwell: A sign of Raheem Sterling’s tender years can be seen inked into his forearm. The image of Wembley, which overlooked his estate growing up, is clear amid a cluster of tattoos. Rather than those two famous towers, synonymous with the national stadium for 77 years, it is the arc, unveiled in 2007, that is unmistakable. Back then, Sterling was a young kid dreaming of a career in professional football, playing jumpers for goalposts on streets and in parks. CLICK HERE TO READ THE FULL STORY. CLICK HERE TO SEE MORE PICTURES FROM TRAINING THIS MORNING. Sportsmail's Riath Al-Samarrai reads between the lines to discover what Sterling was really thinking in that BBC interview... CLICK HERE TO READ. Ian Ladyman: Raheem Sterling edged closer towards an exit from Liverpool on Wednesday night after admitting in a TV interview that he is not ready to sign a new contract at Anfield. Sterling has been offered a £100,000-a-week deal to stay on Merseyside and revealed in a BBC interview on Wednesday that he would have signed for a lot less a year ago. But in an in-depth TV discussion that Liverpool knew nothing about until shortly before it was aired the 20-year-old admitted that it was 'quite flattering' to be linked to Arsenal – who Liverpool face on Saturday in the Barclays Premier League – and that he used to dream of playing abroad. CLICK HERE TO READ THE FULL STORY. This was set to be a pretty routine press conference, with Liverpool manager Brendan Rodgers previewing Saturday's game at Arsenal. But then his star player, Raheem Sterling, gave a TV interview and did very little to suggest he'd be at Anfield next season. The £100,000-a-week contract tabled by Liverpool? Sterling isn't ready to sign it, raising the hopes of his suitors as negotiations are put on ice until the summer. Rodgers is expected to give his opinion on the 20-year-old's ongoing contract saga and we'll bring you all he has to say from 2pm.
