The 'spontaneous' knife attack which killed a young man outside a pizza store in the early hours of Easter Monday could have been related to an earlier incident, police say. It is believed Greg Gibbins had helped a woman when she was being harassed earlier in the night, news.com.au reports. Mr Gibbins and his friends were at The Beachcomber Hotel in Toukley on the Central Coast, NSW on Sunday night before they went to a nearby eatery where he was stabbed in the chest. While investigations continue, police have charged a 20-year-old man with murder of the talented football player. Scroll down for video. Greg Gibbins, 28, went into cardiac arrest after he was seriously stabbed but later died in hospital on Monday. Police said that they believe the attack on Mr Gibbins was 'unprovoked' and described him as being 'good citizen who had been behaving himself' Police told news.com.au that they believe the attack on Mr Gibbins was 'unprovoked' and described him as being 'good citizen who had been behaving himself'. Detective Inspector David Waddell says police are investigating whether the earlier incident involving a woman is linked to the fatal knife attack outside the local pizza shop. It was shortly after midnight when emergency services found Mr Gibbins and his 25-year-old friend with serious stab wounds at about 12.10am from the alleged random attack. The 28-year-old Wyong Roos rugby league club player was treated at the scene by paramedics before he went into cardiac arrest but later died at Gosford Hospital. The 28-year-old was treated at the scene by paramedics before he went into cardiac arrest but later died. Mr Gibbins was a late bloomer who had recently secured a place training in his club's NSW cup squad. A 20-year-old man, who police confirmed to Daily Mail Australia as Bradley James Brooks, was arrested in nearby Halekulani on Monday night and charged with murder. He was refused bail and appeared in Wyong Local Court on Tuesday. Brooks was remanded in custody until May, news.com.au reports. A friend became 'victim number two' when he tried to help fatally injured Mr Gibbins. The 25-year-old also suffered stab wounds during the confrontation and is in hospital undergoing surgery. Family and friends have paid their respect to a 'top bloke' who loved travelling, sports and parties. This comes as grieving family and friends have taken to social media to pay tribute to Mr Gibbins. Pictures from Mr Gibbins Facebook account paints a 'top bloke' who got along with everyone and loved travelling, partying and going to festivals and sporting events. Mr Gibbins, who works as a car spray painter, has prompted an outpouring grief from family, friends, colleagues and rugby team mates on his Facebook account. One friend posted on Facebook: 'RIP gibbo such a lovely friend , it's clear the amazing impact you made on everybody's life, rest easy xx' A rugby team mate wrote: 'Rest easy mate, was great to have played with and against you. A true gentleman that has obviously touched many.' Another said: 'RIP My heart goes out to all your family and everyone that knew you. You were an amazing person.' A school friend said: 'RIP Gibbo .....will always remember the "lolly salad" you made for me in primary school in your backyard, as our "date" ....only the good die young buddy xx.' While another friend wrote: 'You have left us way to early mate..Thoughts go out to the Gibbins family. RIP Gibbo' The 28-year-old was treated at the scene by paramedics before he went into cardiac arrest but later died. Chief Inspector Rodney Peet said at the time that police had not been able to pinpoint the catalyst for the confrontation. 'The victim was there, he was either chatting or waiting for some food, after the establishment across the road closed,' he told AAP. 'Then almost spontaneously this other gentleman has come up and stabbed him in the chest.' The offender fled the scene and police haven't found a weapon. Detectives are looking at CCTV footage at the hotel to establish if any incident inside the club may have prompted the fatal attack. Emergency services found Mr Gibbins and his friend with serious stab wounds from an alleged random attack. Mr Gibbins and his friends were at The Beachcomber Hotel in Toukley on the Central Coast on Sunday night. When it came to his sport, Mr Gibbins was a late bloomer who had recently secured a place training in his club's NSW cup squad. 'He was a very popular player among his peers,' football manager Matt Lavin told AAP. 'I can't say a bad word about him. It is an absolute tragedy and our heart goes out to Greg and his family.' Mr Lavin said the hooker started with the club in 2014 after playing for the nearby Northern Lakes Warriors. 'He is fairly quiet and unassuming, he is not boisterous or a loud mouth,' he said. 'It is not in his character to be involved in confrontation but that is just the tragic circumstances surrounding it unfortunately.' Investigations into the matter are continuing and police are now appealing for any witnesses who’ve not yet spoken with police to contact Crime Stoppers on 1800 333 000. Sorry we are not currently accepting comments on this article.
