Former pub landlord Michael Thorpe has had his conviction for illegally showing foreign footage of Premier League games overturned after eight years. A pub landlord convicted of showing Premier League football matches on foreign TV channels has won an eight-year legal battle to clear his name. Michael Thorpe says he has paid a heavy price for the lengthy fight to get his conviction quashed and has lost his pub as a result. Mr Thorpe, 55, was convicted of showing a Premier League game without having an agreement with official broadcasters in November 2006 at the Stoke Inn in Plymouth, Devon. He said he could not afford to pay Sky TV's rates for football matches, and opted instead to show Albanian transmissions of matches, which he says he thought was legal. But he was convicted, fined and ordered to pay costs eight years ago, when screening the matches was still treated as a criminal offence. Judge Recorder Nicolas Gerasimidis has now upheld his appeal and overturned the conviction following a landmark European court ruling. His appeal took so long as he had to launch the case  after the European Court of Justice found enforcing previous rules was anti-competitive. Mr Thorpe said he was 'overwhelmed' that a judge and magistrates had upheld his appeal after all this time. But it is a bitter-sweet victory, as the long-running dispute cost him his business and his livelihood. He said: 'We put a lot of money into that pub and it went from a thriving business to absolutely zero. People stopped coming to the pub, it cost me my business.' Mr Thorpe launched an appeal against his conviction soon after his trial, but the case was delayed by a similar test case which went as far as the European Court of Justice. The court ruled that having an exclusive system was a restraint of free trade and contrary to European Law. But the landlord says the court action has seen him lose the Stoke Inn in Plymouth which he used to run. Mr Thorpe's appeal was further delayed until another case involving Media Protection Services Ltd, the company which took him to court on behalf of the Premier League, but which no longer does so. Mr Thorpe was awarded his legal costs, which he paid privately, but he would not disclose the sum. The European court decision in 2012 cleared a landlady of a criminal conviction, but judges left the door open for court action against publicans by ruling pubs should get permission from the copyright owner before screening matches. The Premier League has since been taking landlords to civil courts for breaching copyright, with some ordered to pay up to £65,000 in costs. The league sends teams of investigators to pubs around the country to try and catch those screening games illegally. Legal cases have  been brought against 250 bars and pubs during the current football season. He said he does not know whether he can retrieve the £1,000 fine and £1,500 costs ordered by the magistrates. Despite the decision, the Premier League has insisted pubs still cannot show foreign-TV footage of its games. Since the European Court decision, it is taking landlords to civil courts and suing them using copyright laws, which were not affected by the previous ruling. In 2012, pub Karen Murphy landlady won a landmark legal battle to overturn her conviction for using foreign decoders instead of Sky to show Premier League football matches. Ms Murphy, who ran The Red, White and Blue pub in Portsmouth, Hampshire, bought games through a Greek satellite broadcaster Nova for £800 a year instead of Sky, which was then priced at £700-a-month. The Premier League took legal action against her Mrs Murphy and she was fined £8,000 for dishonest reception of a television reception in 2006. But a European Court of Justice ruling said having an exclusive system of TV rights was contrary to EU law and the High Court overturned her conviction. A recent investigation by trade publication, The Morning Advertiser, quoted a pub landlord saying Sky Sports cost him £16,000-a-year, compared to the £300-per-year of screening it illegally. The decision came after Portsmouth landlady Karen Murphy won a European court battle over her conviction. Despite the ruling, the Premier League can still take pub owners to civil courts over breach of copyright.
