It is little over a year since Alan Pardew became involved in a rather ugly touchline confrontation with Manuel Pellegrini while managing Newcastle. Pardew was warned about his behaviour by the FA and wrote to Pellegrini to apologise for the offensive name he called him. On Monday at Selhurst Park, Pardew, now manager of Crystal Palace, meets Pellegrini and Manchester City again having taken steps to change a pattern of behaviour he feared was becoming destructive. After taking advice from the League Managers’ Association, the 53-year-old has benefited from sessions with former international cricketer Jeremy Snape, now a sports psychologist. Alan Pardew called Manuel Pellegrini a 'f***ing old c**t' during Premier League encounter back in. The touchline spat occurred during a Premier League match between Newcastle and Man City in January 2014. ‘My natural instinct is to be aggressive in the way my teams play,’ Pardew told the BBC. ‘But I have had to learn from my own experiences and not get too involved in that myself. Jeremy has helped me on the sidelines in terms of focusing on what I can control. ‘All the times I have been in trouble (I have reacted) when I felt an injustice so when those issues arise now, I know not to react and that is when I switch the off button.’ Pellegrini’s team are under a little pressure. Now trailing neighbours Manchester United ahead of Sunday’s derby at Old Trafford, Pellegrini knows he must lift his side from a run of results that has seen them lose touch with leaders Chelsea. Crystal Palace boss Pardew believes he has the ability to manage one of England's top sides. Pardew feels he would make a decent job of managing a top-four team if given the chance. ‘I look at the top teams and feel I could do that job better than I’m seeing it being done. But if I work in this part of the league for the rest of my career I will be extremely happy,’ he said. Pellegrini said recently he felt his City squad lacked one really big player. This week, he explained: ‘Well, it is just the way of thinking, that big teams need to sign a big player. It is very difficult to do it every year — but every two years you must do it.’
