Hull KR have plugged the gap created by the loss of front row pair Michael Weyman and Ryan Bailey with the capture of experienced Australian forward Dane Tilse from Canberra Raiders. The 6ft 7in, 17st-plus Tilse has signed a two-and-a-half-year contract with the Robins and will join them as soon as he receives the necessary paperwork after the Raiders agreed to release him. Tilse, 30, who has made 200 appearances Down Under, will link up with his old Canberra team-mate Terry Campese, the new Hull KR captain who on Tuesday signed a two-year contract extension, and is a like-for-like replacement for Weyman, who announced his retirement due to injury last month. Australian forward Dane Tilse will move from Canberra Raiders to Hull KR on a two-and-a-half-year deal. The Raiders have agreed to release the 6ft 7in forward and only paperwork delays his start for the Robins. Rovers, who have appointed former England captain Jamie Peacock as their football manager for 2016, were further depleted in the front row when they agreed to release ex-Leeds prop Bailey for personal reasons. Tilse comes in after the sudden retirement of Michael Weyman and Ryan Bailey's departure. Hull KR head coach Chris Chester, who had been linked with a move for Tilse's Canberra team-mate David Shillington, said: 'It's no secret that we've been short on numbers in the front row after the departures of Mick and Ryan Bailey and we wanted to strengthen in that area. 'Our forwards have coped very well in the circumstances but we've been scouring the market for props and we're delighted to be bringing in someone of Dane's calibre. 'He's got a very good pedigree over in the NRL and he's coming here in what should be the prime of his career for a front rower. 'We're excited to see him take to the field for us and he'll be a big part of the squad moving forwards. We've got to go through the necessary process regarding his visa, but we're hopeful of having him on board in the next three to four weeks.' Tilse, a former Junior Kangaroo who was an ever-present for Canberra in both 2013 and 2014, said he spoke to former Hull KR hooker Josh Hodgson, who joined the Raiders at the end of last season, before finalising the move. 'It's a new challenge for me to come over there and it's one I'm really looking forward to,' Tilse said. 'Everybody I've spoken to has had good things to say about Rovers and it sounds like a club on the way up. 'I've had a brief chat to Josh Hodgson and he spoke very highly of the club, as did Mick Weyman's dad. I played with Mick at Canberra and his old man said how much he'd enjoyed it over there. Tilse will link up with his former Raiders team-mate Terry Campese, the new Hull KR captain. 'It's a different style of game in Super League, it's not so much about the wrestle and defence like the NRL, so I'm looking forward to a fresh start. 'I've been at Canberra for 10 years now and it's time for me to be taken out of my comfort zone, but I'm 30 years old, I'm an experienced player and I'm more than confident I can handle the change. 'I was already thinking of coming over to Super League next season, but this was too good an opportunity to turn down. 'Canberra have been really good with me, so hopefully I can play a couple more games here over the next few weeks and then get across to Hull KR.'
