A journalist's line of inquiry with regards to an April Fools' Day gag left Arsene Wenger bewildered during Thursday's pre-Liverpool press conference. MailOnline ran a story on April Fools' Day stating that prior to Arsenal's clash with Liverpool at the Emirates, both pre-match teamtalks by captains Per Mertesacker and Jordan Henderson would be streamed live to the world. The story was of course a hoax but it still managed to create plenty of confusion for Wenger and the assembled press at Thursday's media gathering. Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger fields questions from the media at Thursday's press conference. Wenger turns to an Arsenal official off camera after he is quizzed about Per Mertesacker's 'live' team talk. Wenger is informed that the story was an April Fools' joke and no basis of truth to it. The Gunners boss and the assembled media break into a fit of laughter following the revelation. 'Per Mertsacker this week is going to give a team talk live around the world,' asked the journalist. 'Is that not the case now before this game?' The bewildered Gunners boss then turns to his press officer off camera who tells Wenger: 'I think that's an April Fools' joke'. 'Ah, I do apologise,' the journalist replies prompting Wenger and the assembled press to collapse into a fit of laughter. Our story claimed that the Premier League convinced its clubs to cooperate with the move in order to keep up with the ever-changing technological landscape. The rivals were said to have agreed to a strict number of rules that will ensure neither side is left at a disadvantage. The story read: 'Although the teamtalks by Mertesacker and Henderson will not be screened on BT Sport - who are covering the match live on TV - fans who own a smartphone will be able to tune in. 'New social media tool Periscope - which was launched last week - will host both teamtalks as it bids to break into the sports market.' Sportsmail revealed at midday on April 1 that the story was indeed a hoax - something the said journalist must've missed! The April Fools' gag revolved around Arsenal captain Mertesacker giving a live team talk this weekend.
