Tom Boyd believes Jason Denayer’s loan spell at Celtic has been so successful that he is now ready to challenge for a place at Manchester City next season. Such an outcome would obviously deny Ronny Deila’s stated aim of retaining the young Belgian for another year, yet Boyd also sees a clear positive. To the former Celtic captain, Denayer’s development can act as a perfect advert to encourage more emerging talents to take their next career step at Parkhead. Young defender Jason Denayer (left) has impressed on loan at Celtic this season. The 19-year-old recently won his first international cap for Belgium in a Euro 2016 qualifier against Cyprus. The 19-year-old earned a first full cap for his country when he came off the bench in their 1-0 win in Israel on Tuesday night following a red card for Vincent Kompany. Denayer will hope to join Kompany in City’s first-team squad when he returns to his parent club this summer and Boyd feels he is equipped to take that step. ‘Jason certainly looks like he could go back to Man City and make an impression,’ said Boyd. ‘For a young boy, he’s been exceptional. He looks a lot older in his play and it surprises you when you remind yourself how young he actually is. ‘The only question is whether he will get the opportunities he wants down there. I think he will, especially now that he is featuring for Belgium in a qualification game. ‘Unfortunately, Celtic can’t compete with the money on offer in England. The new television deal down there has taken things to another level again. ‘I’d love Jason to stay at Celtic for 10 years but that’s not going to happen. He’s an ambitious boy and wants to go and challenge himself to be the best he can. From some of the games I’ve seen, I think he could slot into that City defence no problem. Denayer has been tipped to partner Belgium team-mate Vincent Kompany (left) on his return to City. Denayer has formed a successful partnership with Dutchman Virgil van Dijk (left) at Parkhead. ‘However, hopefully his success will help Celtic bring more youngsters in. Previously people said you move to England to get international caps. Jason and Fraser Forster showed that’s not the case. ‘Hopefully Celtic can say, “Come here and you will progress” and use those examples to attract players.’ Sportsmail revealed earlier this week that Hearts captain Danny Wilson is one central defensive candidate under consideration by Celtic as they look a potential additions for next term. ‘Good players attract attention and Danny has been playing very well for Hearts,’ said Boyd. ‘He is certainly someone who was very promising as a young boy and is hopefully getting back to that level.’ The current partnership between Denayer and Virgil van Dijk has formed the foundation of Celtic’s bid for the Treble – a feat the club last achieved in 2001 when Boyd was skipper. Manager Ronny Deila should be able to attract rising youngsters to the Hoops, claims Tom Boyd. Celtic are considering a bid for Hearts defender Danny Wilson to shore up their defence. While some will point to the absence of a competitive Rangers from the top-flight, the ex-Scotland international is adamant a domestic clean sweep this term would be the equal of his achievement under Martin O’Neill’s management. ‘A Treble this year would stand beside the other three in Celtic’s history,’ said Boyd. ‘You have to beat what is in front of you. ‘There have only been three in Celtic’s history and that tells you how hard it is to achieve it. ‘If they do get the Treble, there should be the same adulation as when my team won it in 2001 and Jock Stein’s team did it twice. ‘It would be a fantastic achievement if Scott Brown was collecting the Scottish Cup to complete a Treble. ‘The League has been a challenge with Aberdeen doing so well, although I think the pressure will eventually tell. ‘You can’t take away what Celtic have achieved so far and sometimes the difficult part of the Treble is winning the cups. ‘Celtic have had a terrible record in the League Cup over the years and that shows how hard it is. ‘I’d like to see the talking done when they have two in the bag and are preparing for the Scottish Cup final. ‘Ronny’s approach is new. He’s spoken about the Treble from the start but it does show the level of confidence he has.’ Former captain Boyd insists a treble for Celtic this season will equal his own three-way success from 2001. Boyd was speaking at Hampden as he launched the search for nominees to be inducted into the Scottish Football Hall of Fame. The 49-year-old has a very decent claim himself, but would be delighted if figures who operated behind the scenes were recognised. ‘Professor (Stewart) Hillis, who passed away last year, and other Scotland backroom guys who maybe aren’t as well-known would be very deserving of being in there. ‘Jimmy Steele is another one who contributed a lot with Celtic and the national team - and I think that would be a great gesture if they were inducted.’ Fans can make nominations by logging on to sfmhalloffame.co.uk. Inductees will be announced at a Hampden dinner on October 18.
