A serious knee injury may have cruelly ended Bojan Krkic's season in January but it hasn't stopped the Stoke striker keeping up-to-date with the Premier League. Scheduled to return to action in July, the former AC Milan and Roma forward has been keeping a close eye on England's top-flight as he recovers in Barcelona. Here, Bojan tells Sportsmail which players make his team of the season. Bojan Krkic, pictured celebrating a goal against Rochdale, has picked his Premier League team of the season. The Stoke striker  poses in his garden at his home in the Barcelona province of El Papiol. Bojan shows off the memorabilia he has collected during his career with Barcelona, AC Milan, Ajax and Roma. Bojan gives a thumbs up to the camera as he uses an anti-gravity treadmill which was developed by NASA. Sportsmail spent two days with Bojan in Barcelona as he recovers from the serious knee injury which ended his debut season with Stoke. GOALKEEPER: DAVID DE GEA. I nearly picked Fraser Forster. I have him on Fantasy Manager and he's won me a load of points! I was so sorry to hear about his injury. David de Gea is a great friend — I have known him since the early youth groups with Spain. He is enjoying one of the best seasons I have seen from a keeper. David de Gea makes a save from Swansea's Ki Sung-yueng during one of many excellent performances. RIGHT BACK: NATHANIEL CLYNE. Fast, direct and athletic. I like watching him go forward and he won't let you down defensively. He has been a major part of Southampton's excellent season. Southampton's Nathaniel Clyne (left) is now in the England squad after a fine season with Saints. CENTRE BACK: JOHN TERRY. It hasn't been a great season for centre backs but Terry is still a really tough opponent. When we played against Chelsea just before Christmas, I was impressed by the way Jose Mourinho organised his defence. He put Nemanja Matic and John Mikel Obi on me. It limited the space and made things difficult, plus they had that really strong defence behind. Mourinho is very intelligent in this way. Chelsea skipper John Terry has helped his side to the top of the Premier League table. CENTRE BACK: RYAN SHAWCROSS. He is a very strong defender and is a seriously tough opponent in training. He has a strong character. He has a great personality and is a real leader in the dressing room. He can play at a very high level. Ryan Shawcross, pictured scoring against Manchester United, has been a rock in Stoke's defence. LEFT BACK: BRANISLAV IVANOVIC. My dad is from Serbia and still keeps a close eye on their players. We both admire Ivanovic who has a habit of scoring big goals in big games. I know he plays mainly on the right but I want him in the team. Chelsea defender Branislav Ivanovic has chipped in with some vital goals for Jose Mourinho's side. RIGHT MIDFIELD: ALEXIS SANCHEZ. Unfortunately I never got the chance to play with Alexis at Barcelona. He has had a really impressive first season and will only get better. He possesses star quality. Alexis Sanchez has settled into life in the Premier League with ease after joining Arsenal last summer. CENTRE MIDFIELD: STEVEN NZONZI. A player I rate really highly. A brilliant midfielder in the modern game. Physically strong and tactically and technically sharp. He can control a midfield and conduct our performances. I love playing with him. Stoke midfielder Steven Nzonzi has impressed Bojan with his strong performances in central midfield. CENTRE MIDFIELD: SANTI CAZORLA. In Arsenal's 2-0 win against Manchester City, his was a wonderful performance. His movement is good, he can battle, and his passing is as good as anybody's. Spanish players here have a really strong relationship with supporters. You see Juan Mata and Ander Herrera at Manchester United, David Silva at City — the fans love them — and the Stoke fans have been so warm towards me. It is because we have the character of fighters and feel a responsibility to please supporters. Santi Cazorla, pictured scoring against Newcastle, has been an important cog in Arsenal's midfield. LEFT MIDFIELD: EDEN HAZARD. He is getting better and better. His dribbling is amazing and he is adding more goals to his game. A really special player. Chelsea forward Eden Hazard gets away from Burnley's Matt Taylor during his side's win at Turf Moor. CENTRE FORWARD: SERGIO AGUERO. The best out and out forward around. He's explosive, skilful, a great dribbler and has a powerful shot. Bojan believes Manchester City striker Sergio Aguero is 'the best out and out forward around' CENTRE FORWARD: HARRY KANE. Diego Costa imposes his character on every game. His goalscoring record is great and Chelsea have improved with him. However, I didn't know too much about Harry Kane before this season but he has been amazing. He scores every week! It is great to see an English player doing so well and it has been one of the season's great stories. Tottenham striker Harry Kane celebrates scoring his 22nd goal of the season against Arsenal in February.
