Giant hailstones the size of plums crashed down over the South on Tuesday with residents rushing out to capture the freak weather. Twitter user Arke USA from Bryant, Arkansas, filmed the ice balls peppering his backyard and noisily plopping into the swimming pool. Footage shows the hailstones coming down at speed, with many cracking as they hit the ground. Despite it being around 80-degrees, the compacted lumps prove resilient to the heat taking a good while to melt. In a matter of seconds the patio is completely covered in snow-white pellets. Caught on camera: Giant hailstones the size of plums crashed down over the South on Tuesday with residents rushing out to capture the freak weather. Monster hail: Brittney Davis from Arkansas holds one of the hail stones that fell from the sky yesterday. Photographs taken after the hail storm passed show large punctures in a lawn. A SUV and drainpipe are also seen littered with dent marks. Other social media users have also been sharing pictures of the monster hail. Many pictures show the balls alongside quarter-dollar coins to demonstrate their mammoth size. Other residents claimed the spheres were as big as baseballs. Before and after shots: Twitter user Arke USA from Bryant, Arkansas, filmed the ice balls peppering his backyard and noisily plopping into the swimming pool. Big pellets: The National Weather Service received 170 reports of hail, twenty of which detailed stones at least two inches in diameter. Lasting damage: Photographs taken after the hail storm passed show punctures in a lawn (left) and dent marks on an SUV (right) Christopher Pipkin uploaded a photo to Twitter showing his mother's car windscreen smashed in as a result of the hail storm. The National Weather Service apparently received 170 reports of hail on Tuesday, twenty of which detailed stones at least two inches in diameter. Along with hail, lighting and thunder also hit Arkansas and parts of Mississippi. There have been reports of power outages and traffic delays due to the severe weather. According to The Weather Channel, the storms will move across the Midwest on Thursday with St Louis, Louisville, Memphis, Indianapolis, Little Rock, Oklahoma City and Dallas hit hardest. On Friday the icy blasts are set to drift further South, hitting cities including Jackson and Birmingham. Sweeping front: There have been reports of power outages and traffic delays due to the severe weather. Warning: According to The Weather Channel, the storms will move across the Midwest on Thursday with St Louis, Louisville, Memphis, Indianapolis, Little Rock, Oklahoma City and Dallas hit hardest. Weekend woes: On Friday the icy blasts are set to drift further South, hitting cities including Jackson and Birmingham.
