Arsenal legend Paul Merson has been forced into an embarrassing climbdown and admitted he was wrong to criticise the England call up for Andros Townsend. The Tottenham winger came off the bench to score the equaliser with a stunning strike in Tuesday's 1-1 draw with Italy in Turin. It was the perfect riposte after Merson said in his Sky Sports column: 'If Andros Townsend can get in (the England squad) then it opens it up for anybody.' Andros Townsend scores England's equaliser in their 1-1 friendly draw with Italy in Turin on Tuesday night. Townsend celebrates his strike with Tottenham Hotspur team-mates Ryan Mason (left) and Kyle Walker. In his column for skysports.com, Merson wrote: 'If Andros Townsend can get in then it opens it up for anybody. We are not picking players who are playing well for their clubs – he got taken off after 30 minutes the other week against United. 'The England manager is there watching the game and he still gets picked. Townsend and Kyle Walker were the worst two players on the pitch. 'How can you tell me that a manager goes and watches Man United against Tottenham, the winger gets taken off after 30 minutes, the winger from the other team absolutely rinses the full-back for England and Ashley Young doesn't get in the squad?' Townsend later tweeted to his 285,000 followers: 'Not bad for a player that should be 'nowhere near the squad' ay @PaulMerse?' And Merson insisted on Wednesday he was pleased to be proven wrong by the 23-year-old. Merson told Sky Sports: 'It's just a matter of opinion, and my opinion was that he got pulled off after half an hour at Manchester United in front of Roy Hodgson, so he shouldn't have been in the squad. 'But fair play to him, I only give my opinion, and sometimes I'm wrong, other times I'm right. 'When I'm wrong, I hold my hands up. I don't have a problem with doing that - I'll always be the first to admit when I'm wrong. 'It's not as though I was watching hoping he wouldn't score for England, I'm genuinely pleased for him and fair play to him – it was a great goal. 'But I don't feel as though I need to defend myself – it's my job to give my opinion – and I'm just glad people actually take notice of what I'm saying!' Sky Sports pundit Paul Merson (centre) criticised Townsend's call-up to the England squad last week. Harry Kane congratulates his Tottenham team-mate Townsend after the final whistle in Turin. Roy Hodgson was also impressed with Townsend after the Tottenham winger's fine goal after the break.
