Does any player fluctuate between world-beater and under-achiever more than Andros Townsend? Currently on a high after his stunning equaliser for England against Italy in Turin on Tuesday night, the 23-year-old Tottenham winger has already had more ups and downs than most players experience in their careers. On his day, Townsend stands in comparison with the very best. He terrifies defenders with his speed and directness – a trait he also possesses off the pitch judging by his 'told you so' tweet to a critical Paul Merson this week. That ability was first noticed two years ago when he single-handedly tried to save QPR from relegation with a string of virtuoso performances. Later in 2013, he turned in two of the great international displays of recent years when he destroyed Montenegro and Poland at Wembley to book England's place at the World Cup. Andros Townsend unleashes an unstoppable right-footed strike from 20 yards to score England's equaliser. The Tottenham and England winger celebrates his goal against Italy, which was his third for his country. His strike in Turin, measured at 77.2mph, was further evidence he belongs on the top table. 'We are indebted to Andros – he is a game-changer,' said England manager Roy Hodgson. And yet... How can a player with Townsend's obvious ability be sent out to nine different clubs on loan by Spurs. Why has he still not played a full 90 minutes for his club in the Premier League this season? How come in the autumn it was Townsend rather than Aaron Lennon who was seen as surplus to requirements at White Hart Lane? He has scored as many goals for England as he has done in the Premier League for Spurs. Wingers are by nature of their position more inconsistent than other players. If they are starved of service, they can appear ineffectual. And if they try too hard when they do get the ball, they can squander possession. And even by wingers' standards, Townsend is a risk-taker. It can make him look unstoppable at times and a waste of time at others. Hodgson admitted agonising about giving him a debut ahead of James Milner and Jack Wilshere against Montenegro 18 months ago, but he was man of the match and scored the important third goal in a 4-1 England victory. Townsend celebrates scoring England's third goal against Montenegro in a World Cup qualifier. Townsend as a pundit for ITV during the World Cup. Articulate and bright – his father Troy is a leading figure in football's anti-racism body Kick It Out – he was comfortable in the television studio as a pundit at last summer's World Cup when an ankle injury ruled him out of Hodgson's squad. Sometimes intelligence also means a determination to play the game your way, not always appreciated by managers obsessed by tactics. Townsend thrived with Harry Redknapp at QPR but it didn't look as if he fitted in under Mauricio Pochettino at Spurs. He started the season being used for Capital One Cup and Europa League games rather than the important Premier League stuff. Even now, if things aren't going well, the chances are Townsend will be sacrificed. At Old Trafford he was taken off after half an hour when Spurs were being beaten 2-0 by Manchester United. But he is starting games now ahead of £25million Erik Lamela with another rival, Lennon, loaned out to Everton. For his club, he has hit some rarefied heights, most notably a European game against Dynamo Tbilisi when he scored a goal and made two others. When Hodgson's squad was announced for the recent double-header against Lithuania and Italy, Merson claimed Townsend shouldn't have been included. The player had scored for The Three Lions against San Marino this season but missed the Slovenia and Scotland games with another ankle injury, another reason for his inconsistency. Following his equaliser, Townsend tweeted in response: 'Not bad for a player who should be 'nowhere near the squad''. He later added he hoped he had silenced his critics. Townsend looks dejected after his first-half substitution during Tottenham's 2-0 defeat by Manchester United. The truth is Townsend's style may be best suited to international football which after all is cup knockout when you get to the big tournaments. For the grind of a full Premier League season, you can't afford to have one thrilling moment followed by wasting possession or a wayward shot. The statistics back that up. He has scored three goals in seven games for England compared with three in 21 Premier League starts for Spurs. He will have to try to improve on that ratio when he dons his club shirt again at Burnley on Sunday. In that sense, you can understand why Hodgson will continue to pick him regardless of club form. He is, in the manger's words, a game-changer. Tottenham will be hoping that Townsend can replicate his international form for his club.
