Football agents were left in limbo on Wednesday as they awaited news on new regulations. As of April 1, the licensing system for agents is to change so that anyone can become a football agent as long as they pay £500 for an initial one-year registration period. The FA will then charge £250 for every subsequent year of renewal. Already established licensed agents were exempt. The FA is due to place a link on their website for intermediaries to register, but as of 1pm that was still not in place. Mel Stein thinks the new regulations on becoming a football agent will 'create anarchy' The new guidelines have come in after FIFA effectively washed their hands of governing agents. FIFA recommendations include national associations registering only intermediaries of 'impeccable character', all deals annually published online, agents' fees limited to three per cent and no monies earned by them for negotiating deals for players under the age of 18. The FA, Premier League and Football League have been discussing how best to cope with FIFA opting out. All have serious concerns about how the system will work in Britain and abroad, especially in under-developed football territories. Mel Stein, chairman of the London-based Association of Football Agents, told the Guardian: 'I think it's going to create anarchy and everybody is going to be sorry about it. FIFA couldn't cope so they decided to hand it over to the individual territories. Manchester United striker Radamel Falcao (right) with his agent Jorge Mendes pictured last year. 'I can see the bloke in the pub who knows a parent or a footballer's dad saying 'I'll represent you' and then undercutting everyone.' 'It is clearly wrong and anti-competitive to have this kind of price-capping. The FA are saying we've got to do it because that's what FIFA are telling us to do. The three per cent cap will destroy the business of probably 50% of my members.' AFA (Association of Football Agents) has been holding discussions to reach a compromise and have pushed for self regulating. James Featherstone of OmniSports said: 'It's a big worry for clubs how they keep a check on who is who. These new rules will allow anyone to register as an intermediary acting on behalf of a player.'
