Tyler Walker is a player who could form Nottingham Forest’s attack for years to come, according to manager Dougie Freedman. The 18-year-old striker came off the bench to score an impressive first goal of his senior career at Brentford on East Monday. It took him level with a Forest legend of the same surname: his dad Des, a scorer just once in 408 games for the club. Tyler Walker celebrates after scoring his first senior goal for Nottingham Forest away to Brentford. A source of mirth around the dinner table? Quite probably, although the younger Walker still has some way to go to match his father’s feats. He has managed just 56 minutes in his fledgling career so far, a distance from the 858 senior games, including 59 England caps, of Des. Still, the game is about goals…. True, and Walker Junior’s was a peach, controlling a high ball in an instant, shimmying past a defender, and rifling a left-foot shot into the net. It was curiously similar to his old man’s only goal, coming on New Year’s Day 1992 against Luton. He too smashed in an angled shot with his left. The younger Walker could already have passed his tally had he done better than skew wide a glorious chance at Griffin Park. The 18-year-old attacker is son of former England and Nottingham Forest defender Des Walker. He seems the real deal though, not just daddy’s boy made good through connections? That paternal link may have helped initially but since entering the Forest academy Tyler has proved his pedigree. He began the season in Jack Lester's Under-18 squad, and made a sizeable impression in January by firing a hat-trick against West Bromwich Albion in the FA Youth Cup fourth round. He progressed to Forest’s Under-21s and scored seven goals in 13 starts, leading Freedman to take notice and offer a chance following injuries to Britt Assombalonga, Matty Fryatt and Dexter Blackstock. Walker made his debut in the final minute of Forest’s 2-0 win over Rotherham on March 18, at the same age his dad did under Brian Clough 31 years earlier. Walker scored a goal of the highest quality as he twisted and turned before firing past David Button. Freedman presumably knows a good striker when he finds one…. The Forest manager is a huge fan of the teenager, hyping him up rather than playing things down. ‘I believe he can play for the club for a very long time and make the striker's role his in the very near future,’ Freedman said after the draw against Brentford. ‘I am pleased to stand here and say, “You have a wonderful young asset at the football club who is only going to get better”. ‘The biggest advantage is that he is a very well-rounded, level-headed boy that turns up every day and works hard. If he has that mindset then you have a chance.’ What are his attributes? As displayed by his goal, Walker is two-footed and possesses good balance. He is quick, an intelligent runner, and a smart finisher. He also has a striker’s mentality. As part of the FA Youth Cup hat-trick he won an argument with team-mate Gerry McDonagh over who would take a penalty, going on to score. The youngest is highly thought of by Forest boss Dougie Freedman, who believes he has a big future.
