Tottenham defender Ben Davies will allow no room for sentiment up against Wales team-mate Sam Vokes at Burnley on Sunday. Spurs head to Turf Moor looking to sustain a decent run following just one defeat, at Manchester United, from four Barclays Premier League matches before the international break as they look to keep alive hopes of European qualification. Burnley, meanwhile, are scrapping for survival, currently 18th, but just a point from safety. Burnley's Sam Vokes celebrates scoring against Tottenham in the FA Cup earlier this season, with Spurs defender Ben Davies turning away following the Clarets' equaliser in the third round at Turf Moor. Davies chases a loose ball for Tottenham along with Chelsea's Willian earlier this season in a Barclays Premier League clash at Stamford Bridge which the Blues won 3-0. Clarets forward Vokes and full-back Davies were part of the Wales team which beat Israel 3-0 in their Euro 2016 qualifying tie. However, Davies maintains there can be no quarter given should he get the chance of a first Spurs appearance since the 2-1 win at QPR. 'I have played alongside Sam with Wales for a good couple of years now and it is always strange coming up against somebody who is normally a team-mate, but regardless of that Burnley is a tough place to go,' Davies said on Tottenham's official website. 'Burnley are a well-organised team and they can make it very difficult for their opponents. They have taken points off some big teams this year, so we need to go there and make sure that we are focused and be wary of the threats that they have got.' With points at a premium at both ends of the table, Davies knows what is at stake over the run-in. Sam Vokes attempts to fire a shot in on goal for Wales as Israel's Tal Ben Haim lunges in during Saturday's Euro 2016 qualifier in Haifa. Davies was also part of the Wales team which triumphed in Israel (right) as he slides in to block a cross. 'Everybody is fighting for something. Every team needs the points at this stage of the season and they want to win every game they can,' the defender added. 'It is going to be no different on Sunday. We are going there and we have got to be ready to match their challenge.' Dutch goalkeeper Michel Vorm is set to deputise for Hugo Lloris, who has a knee injury. Full-back Danny Rose will be assessed after returning early from an England call-up with hamstring and hip issues. Spurs had some 13 players away on senior international duty, with striker Harry Kane again impressing for the Three Lions, scoring on his debut against Lithuania at Wembley, while Andros Townsend netted an equaliser against Italy in Turn on Tuesday night, when midfielder Ryan Mason made his bow. Manager Mauricio Pochettino believes the squad can take that positive mood back into domestic duty. He said: 'It has been a very good week for Tottenham. The English players and others with their international teams have put in good performances. They are all fit and at a very good level too. 'It is always difficult after the international break, but we need to make it a good performance and win the game.'
