Juventus coach Massimiliano Allegri goes into this weekend's Serie A games admitting he does not expect to be fully embraced by the team's fans until he steers the club to a title. Having joined the Turin outfit last summer, several months after being sacked by AC Milan, Allegri has hardly put a foot wrong, coaching Juve to a commanding lead in the race for the Scudetto. Allegri, who replaced Antonio Conte last summer, and Juve will go after another three points on Saturday when they host Empoli. Juventus manager Massimiliano Allegri instructs his side from the touchline, who are top of Serie A. 'When I arrived, I feared that I would not be able to win the hearts of the fans because I had promised to achieve that with results,' Allegri told his club's official website. 'I have forgiven the initial scepticism because it was right to do that. What happened last July to Juventus was a shock (Conte's resignation). 'We have worked and are having a good season that we need to conclude positively, seeing as we have not won anything yet.' Juve are 14 points clear of Roma at the top of the standings with 10 games remaining. If they win the league, it will be a fourth straight Scudetto for the club. Carlos Tevez (centre) scored twice as Juventus cruised past Borussia Dortmund in the Champions League. Allegri has also guided the Bianconeri into the Champions League quarter-finals and the Coppa Italia semi-finals. Roma, who are just one point clear of Lazio, host fellow Champions League hopefuls Napoli on Saturday. Lazio carry a six-match winning run in Serie A with them to Sardinia to face Cagliari. The Biancoceleste hold the last Champions League qualifying spot and are four points clear of nearest rivals Sampdoria. Samp make the trip to Florence to take on Fiorentina also in fine fettle after winning their last four league games. France's Paul Pogba has been an integral part of the Juventus side 14 points clear at the top of  Serie A. Fiorentina are two places and two points behind Saturday's opponents and are unbeaten at home in Serie A since November 9. Ninth-place Genoa, with just two points collected since since February 15, face Udinese at the Luigi Ferraris stadium. AC Milan, who beat Cagliari 3-1 before the international break, square off against Palermo at La Favorita. Inter Milan lock horns with bottom-side Parma at the San Siro with the Nerazzurri desperate to snap a six-match winless run in all competitions. Rafael Benitez's Napoli side need to beat Roma to realistically qualify for the Champions League. Atalanta will try to give Edy Reja his first victory when they host Torino. The Bergamo club has not won since February 1. Cesena, with just one triumph away from home all season, travel to Verona to face Hellas. Domenico Di Carlo's Cesena have won one of their last seven league games and are five points adrift of safety. Chievo have lost just one of their last seven games to stave off the threat of relegation. They are in 15th place and 11 points clear of the drop zone heading into their game at Sassuolo.
