Stoke boss Mark Hughes is in no doubt it is high time the club brought their run of fruitless trips to Stamford Bridge to an end. Since gaining promotion to the Barclays Premier League in 2008, the Potters have played Chelsea away eight times in all competitions and lost on every occasion. They did win their last visit to the Londoners' ground previous to that, a League Cup triumph in 1995, but it is not since a 1-1 draw between the two sides in 1984 that Stoke have claimed a point there. Stoke City manager Mark Hughes says his side must end their barren run at Chelsea. Frank Lampard (right) celebrates  as Chelsea beat Stoke 3-0 on their most recent visit to Stamford Bridge. Adding to that in Saturday's 5.30pm clash at the stadium certainly looks a tall order - leaders Chelsea have won 11 and drawn three of their 14 home league games this season. But Hughes, who has seen his 10th-placed side notch victories at the likes of Manchester City and Tottenham already this term, is adamant Stoke must address their poor Stamford Bridge record. Former Chelsea striker Hughes said: 'It's not easy. Our record there hasn't been great - but that could be said of most clubs in the Premier League recently. 'I'm told that the last time we got a positive result there (in the league) was 1984 and my first-team coach (Eddie Niedzwiecki) was in goal for Chelsea. 'I don't know what that says about the quality of Stoke in those days - or if it questions the ability of my first-team coach! Stoke forward Jonathan Walters is expected to shake off a calf knock in time to be available. Marc Muniesa is set to return to the squad after missing five games because of a hamstring problem. 'But it has been a long time and we need to address that. We have been able to go to the likes of Manchester City and Tottenham this year (and get results) and our away form for the most part has been good. 'We have proved to ourselves that we can go to top clubs and get positive results, and hopefully we will do more of the same at the weekend.' Stoke forward Jonathan Walters is expected to shake off a calf knock in time to be available for Saturday's contest and defender Marc Muniesa is set to return to the matchday squad after missing five games because of a hamstring problem. The Potters also have Victor Moses fit again - but he will not be able to feature this weekend as the opposition is the on-loan winger's parent club.
