South Sydney hooker Issac Luke is at the centre of a homophobic accusation after posting an offensive comment on social media in response to attacks from Canterbury Bulldogs fans. The 27-year-old had made a heartfelt appeal on his official Instagram account on Saturday in a bid to track down the young Rabbitohs fan who was allegedly attacked at ANZ Stadium in Sydney. The rugby league player had intended to donate a jersey ahead of the Easter long weekend as a gesture to make up for the incident that left the boy hospitalised after the controversial clash. But the good Samaritan is now under investigation by the NRL integrity unit over an alleged homophobic slur after Luke hit back to the taunts, saying: 'get off my page you lil poofters'. South Sydney star Issac Luke will be investigated by the NRL after posting a homophobic slur on Instagram. The 27-year-old posted an offensive remark in response to to attacks from  Bulldogs fans on Instagram. 'This is about a kid your fans knocked out. Well now two kids Yous [sic] dropped. We train at Redfern come down and see if you fellas are still carrying on #rulesarerules even though it was a hard penalty to take,' the post continued. 'I bet yous [sic] would've done the same had we done it to one of your players. Or we would've have even had u gooses commenting had it happened earlier on in the game. Now get off my page.' The comment prompted an immediate backlash on social media with some labelling the response 'grubby' and 'disappointing'. One Twitter user questioned: 'I'm assuming Issac Luke is one of those players the kids should be looking up to right?' Another person wrote: 'You are grubby homophobic thug and I hope you get rubbed out of our game.' The South Sydney hooker had intended to donate a jersey to the injured young fan who was allegedly attacked. Luke was forced to leave the field after sustaining a head knock during the round five NRL match between the Canterbury Bulldogs and the South Sydney Rabbitohs at ANZ Stadium on Friday night. However, many others have defended Luke's comment, with one person saying: 'Gutless cowards trying to get you cause your [sic] a big star I know the homophobic slur wasn't intentional you've got my support.' And another posted: 'Lovely gesture. What we are proud of our players and will always cheer loud and proud for you all.' But Luke's comment was quickly removed and he has since apologised for his offensive remark. 'I just want to apologise for what I said to fans,' he posted. 'I was very worried and my emotion got the better of me I didn't meant to offend anyone. Just tip me up if I'm being sill peeps [sic].' The comment prompted an immediate backlash on social media with some labelling the response 'grubby' Along with his apology, Luke confirmed that he has managed to find two young people who were involved in the alleged attack. The NRL has issued a statement to Fairfax Media stating 'Rugby League is a game for everyone regardless of race, colour, religion, ability or sexuality'. 'As an inclusive game, we do not tolerate discrimination in any form. This is an important matter, and it is certainly one which we will take up with Souths.' Luke's post comes after Waratahs forward Jacques Potgieter was fined $10,000 by the ARU for making an on-field homophobic slur. The comment was shortly deleted and Luke has since made a public apology over his offensive remark. The revelation follows after Rabbitohs' sealed a bitter 18-17 victory against the Bulldogs at ANZ Stadium. Many others have defended Luke's offensive remarks, saying it was a 'lovely gesture' to find the injured fan. The revelation follows after Rabbitohs' sealed a bitter 18-17 victory against the Bulldogs during the Good Friday showdown after a last-gasp penalty ended in controversy. As NRL referees, officials and players made their way off the field and towards the tunnel after full time, a section of the crowd started hurling plastic water bottles and abuse at them. Sideline interchange official Darren Alchin was taken to hospital with a suspected broken shoulder and two men have been identified for allegedly throwing bottles.
