Danny Lennon's interim appointment as Scotland Under 21 coach officially ended as reports claim he will be named as Alloa Athletic boss on Tuesday. The former St Mirren boss has reportedly agreed a deal to take charge of the Scottish Championship side until the summer of 2016. Paddy Connolly has been in temporary charge of the Wasps since Barry Smith resigned on March 7. Danny Lennon has left his role as interim Scotland Under 21 manager. Lennon, who left the Buddies in May 2014, took charge of the Scotland Under 21 side for a 2-1 friendly victory against Hungary last month. The Scottish FA issued a statement which read: 'The Scottish FA can confirm that Danny Lennon's interim appointment as Scotland Under 21 coach has now come to an end. 'Danny leaves with the association's best wishes after dedicating himself to the stewardship of the team for the 2-1 victory against Hungary in Tatabanya last month.' Stewart Regan, Scottish FA chief executive added: 'I would like to thank Danny for the professionalism and enthusiasm with which he took charge of the Under 21 squad. 'While Danny was aware of the short-term nature of the job, his preparation for the match was meticulous and he was rewarded with a victory that he will savour for years to come. The former St Mirren manager looks set to take over at Scottish Championship club Alloa Athletic. 'I know he thrives on the day-to-day involvement of club management and I am certain he will be a success in his next challenge. On behalf of the Scottish FA I wish Danny the best of luck for the future.' Lennon said: 'I knew from the outset this was an interim appointment but it was an honour and pleasure to serve my country at international level. 'I put everything into making sure the under-21s got a positive result and I would like to thank the players and coaching staff for ensuring a great performance and a win, one I will treasure for the rest of my career. 'I would like to thank Stewart Regan and everyone at the Scottish FA and would welcome the opportunity to work with them again in the future.' A permanent appointment for the role of national Under 21 coach will be made in due course.
