Holland manager Guus Hiddink has slammed his own supporters for booing Andres Iniesta during his side's 2-0 victory against Spain on Tuesday night and branded them a 'disgrace'. Spain coach Vicente del Bosque fielded an experimental side at the Amsterdam Arena with Iniesta, who started on the bench, entering the fray in the 76th minute to chorus of jeering and boos from the home fans. Centre back Stefan de Vrij and midfielder Davy Klaassen scored first-half goals in the morale-boosting victory, but Hiddink was unimpressed with the way Iniesta was treated. Spain midfielder Andres Iniesta controls the ball during his side's 2-0 defeat by Holland on Tuesday night. 'It's a disgrace,' said Hiddink. 'He's a world class player and a wonderful person. At first I didn't notice it was about him. Was it because of his goal against the Netherlands in 2010? 'It's unbelievable, this is about sport. What was he supposed to do? I can't understand this.' Tuesday night's friendly win was a much-needed boost for Hiddink who has endured a tough start to his second stint as national coach. Holland boss Guus Hiddink slammed the home fans for booing Iniesta after his arrival in the 76th minute. In the seven matches leading up to the victory against Spain, his team had beaten only Kazakhstan and Latvia in European qualifiers and lost to Italy, the Czech Republic, Iceland and Mexico in qualifiers and friendlies. 'I don't have the feeling that there is pressure on my shoulders, ' Hiddink added. 'I don't want to fight against the media any more, I just want to stay focused on football. There are always stories in the press. Stefan de Vrij (second from left) heads past Spain goalkeeper David de Gea to make it 1-0. Davy Klaassen doubles Holland's advantage after seeing his initial effort saved by Spain goalkeeper De Gea. 'I saw a Netherlands squad that had the guts to play football. Although we made some mistakes, I thought we were pretty good. 'These mistakes are a good lessons for our players because you can't make these against Spain. Luckily they didn't punish us. Kenneth Vermeer saved us a few times and I thought Daley Blind and Klaassen played very well.'
