Five staff members sustained serious injuries after taking a joy ride down 'the Super Slide' at the Sydney Royal Easter Show on Saturday night, despite the slide being closed after heavy rain made it too dangerous. It is understood a group of eight contracted workers broke into the 52-metre slide after it was closed earlier in the night due to fears the heavy rain would make the slide particularly slippery. Scroll down for video. Five staff members left the Royal Easter Show with serious injuries after taking a joy ride on the closed Super Slide. The Easter Show's chief operating officer Michael Collins told Fairfax the slide 'runs way too fast in the wet' and that's why it was closed as soon as the weather turned. It is reported the group were travelling at such great speeds that they were unable to stop and broke through the barricade at the bottom of the ride. A 22-year-old woman broke both her legs, a 60-year-old man suffered broken ribs and internal bleeding while a 23-year-old woman also broke her leg and a 33-year-old man possibly broke his arm. Three of the contractors escaped without injury. Officials closed the ride earlier that night after deciding heavy rain made the ride particularly dangerous. The 22-year old woman and the 60-year-old man required emergency medical treatment and were taken to Westmead Hospital, while the others sought treatment at Concord Hospital. The slide underwent a safety check Sunday morning and was cleared for use, as long as there wasn't another downpour. The thrill seekers were travelling at such great speeds they were unable to stop eventually running into a barricade at the bottom of the slide. Mr Collins said although he hopes the employees have a quick recovery, it was their disregard for safety instructions that got themselves into this situation. 'I want to reinforce the message that you should be abiding by directions, if the train station is closed, you don't climb over onto railway tracks, It is a shame that people have taken it upon themselves to do so on this occasion.'
