As if the news that Tiger Woods will be back at the Masters next week was not encouraging enough for American golf, the sight of a resurgent Phil Mickelson at the Shell Houston Open provided added lustre. The gifted leftie followed his opening 66 with a 67 to sit one shot behind leader Andrew Putnam going into the third round. While Woods electrified the twittersphere with his announcement, his great rival thrilled the massive number of fans on the ground with a display that recalled all his great days. Another to enjoy a good day was Englishman Justin Rose, who provided further encouraging evidence he is now over his bleak March with a 68 that has left him just four shots off the pace and in contention going into the weekend. Phil Mickelson capped his resurgence in form at the Houston Open with rounds of 66 or 67. Mickelson is one shot behind going into the third round with The Masters a week away. Tiger Woods confirmed his participation at The Masters at Augusta next week. As for Woods, the news he will end his self-imposed exile next week was enthusiastically welcomed here in Texas. Padraig Harrington had only to be told Woods had played a practice round at Augusta National on Friday before pre-empting the official announcement. ‘If Tiger is fit and healthy there’s absolutely no way he will be sitting out the Masters,’ said Harrington. ‘It will be great to see him back. Just by being there he will add to the intrigue and the fascination.’ Woods fuelled speculation he would return when he flew by private jet from Florida to play a practice round last Tuesday. He reportedly shot 74 with the dreaded chipping yips making an unwelcome return with a thinned shot across one green that finished in a bunker. It was those problems that caused him to take a break from the game in the first place. Back in late January he skulled a number of chips in a horrific 82 at the Waste Management Open, his worst score as a pro. Woods said he wouldn’t return until he was satisfied he could compete. Justin Rose continued his upturn in form with an encouraging round of 68. Mickelson has struggled for form this year and carded an 82 at the Waste Management Open. Woods reportedly shot a round of 74 in practice at Augusta on Tuesday and had a return of the chipping yips. There will be considerable scepticism he can compete next week given it’s over a year now since he turned in a decent tournament. Woods missed the Masters last year owing to back surgery. As for Harrington, his welcome revival continued after a second round 69 that took him to five under but Lee Westwood’s tournament is over. Two rounds of 71 were not good enough for the English veteran to make it through to the weekend.
