Chelsea are poised to join the heavyweight battle for English football’s hottest property Raheem Sterling. Chelsea have made discreet overtures about Sterling, despite Liverpool manager Brendan Rodgers insisting on Thursday that his 20-year-old striker is going nowhere this summer. Sterling stunned Liverpool earlier this week by giving an interview in which he claimed he is not motivated by money in stalling over a £100,000-a-week contract and admitting he is ‘quite flattered’ by interest from Arsenal. It has led to suspicions that Sterling, who was raised in London and came through the youth system at QPR, is agitating for a return to the capital. Premier League leaders Chelsea are poised to join the battle for Liverpool wideman Raheem Sterling. However, Liverpool manager Brendan Rodgers insists the 20-year-old star is 'going nowhere' this summer. Sterling has claimed he is not motivated by money in stalling over a £100,000-a-week contract. Now Chelsea want to be kept informed about the forward’s future as they join the hunt with Arsenal and Manchester City. But Rodgers said: ‘He’s got two-and-a-half years to go on his deal and he’s not going anywhere in the summer. I cannot speak for the owners but I have a good idea of what they would do. I know them well enough and for me it would not happen. Liverpool are one of the superpowers of football and the owners have made it clear that money doesn’t come into it. If the club doesn’t want to sell, it won’t sell, it’s as simple as that. Money has never been the objective for the club. ‘Whatever player — Raheem or anybody — it would always be on the terms of the club. ‘He still has two-and-a- bit years left of his deal so it’s not something we’re overly concerned about. I’m confident that at the end of the season we’ll find the solution.’ Sterling shares a joke with Liverpool striker Daniel Sturridge during Liverpool's training session on Thursday. City and Chelsea have the money to lure Sterling should he be allowed to leave Anfield. Sportsmail understands Arsenal’s interest is also serious. Doubts over Arsenal’s ability to fund a move for Sterling have seen their interest questioned, but they are confident they have the financial firepower to compete for him. In addition to the English trio, Sterling is also attracting interest from Europe — with Real Madrid and Bayern Munich monitoring developments. However, Rodgers reminded Sterling that it was Liverpool who made him the player he is today, saying he should be ‘honoured’ to represent the club. He refused to say whether the player will face disciplinary action after admitting the club had been caught off guard by the interview. Rodgers reminded England international Sterling it is Liverpool who have made him the player he is today. ‘There was no permission by the club, it was something that surprised us all,’ added Rodgers. ‘It’s part of the modern game. People who look after players and represent them have different ways of working. I’ve seen that over the years. ‘The last time we sat down it was the intention of the player and his representatives, and also the club, to put (contract talks) on hold. Obviously, Raheem has come out and made his feelings clear on that and hopefully now the focus will be on the football. ‘He’s a young player who is still learning and developing on and off the field. Sometimes you make mistakes as a youngster. ‘Our relationship is strong, which is important. He knows I’m working in the best interests of the club and for him.’
