Reigning Man of Steel Daryl Clark will be aiming to sink his home-town club when Castleford visit struggling Warrington as part of a full First Utility Super League programme on Easter Monday. The England hooker left the Tigers at the end of last season and, despite the switch, he has kept a close eye on events at his old club. 'It was the only team I played for coming through as a youngster so it'll feel a bit different being on the other side,' said Clark, who is expected to recover from a busted nose sustained in Thursday's defeat at Widnes to maintain his ever-present record for the Wolves. 'I still look out for their results to see how they're going and I hope they do well. Daryl Clark is ready to take on his former team-mates at Castleford Tigers, his boyhood club. 'I've seen their games and highlights on TV and they're probably a bit like us. They've put a few good performances together and got some good wins but they've been poor in other games. 'I'm not too sure what the reception for me will be, I'll have to wait and see.' Warrington coach Tony Smith, who persuaded owner Simon Moran to fork out £185,000 to buy the hooker out of his contract with the Tigers last summer, believes the player deserves a good reception from the visiting fans. 'He was super for them, he gave everything he had,' Smith said. 'I don't think there should be any resentment towards him. 'He was going to be lost to that club any way and the coffers that were earned from him has probably allowed them to survive a bit longer and in a much better state than they would have been otherwise. Reigning Man of Steel Clark will lead the way for Warrington Wolves as they try to end a three game losing run. 'So they should be very grateful for his talent and hope that one day he comes home to them at the end of his career. But in the meantime I think he's got a bright future with us.' Warrington have won their last five home games against Castleford but they have dropped to seventh place after suffering a third consecutive defeat at Widnes, who have drawn the short straw over Easter with a trip to Perpignan as they seek a their first-ever win over Catalans Dragons. Vikings coach Denis Betts has made no apology for ringing the changes, as he rests a host of regulars, including skipper Kevin Brown, his half-back partner Joe Mellor and full-back Rhys Hanbury. 'It will be a completely different side,' Betts said. 'Three games in eight days is atrocious when you look at what we've gone through. What happens over this Easter period could affect us for 10 weeks. Flashback: Clark says he still keenly follows the fortunes of the Tigers and hopes they do well. 'I've got to use the squad and give others opportunities. Danny Craven and Tom Gilmore will play and Grant Gore will come into the side. It gives them an opportunity to show what they can do. 'We'll go over there with a load of desire and purpose. Those lads have known all week they're going to play.' Champions St Helens will also be much changed as they look to avoid a third successive defeat when Hull visit Langtree Park for the Steve Prescott Cup. Saints coach Keiron Cunningham has called up youngsters Jack Ashworth, Ricky Bailey, Olly Davies and Lewis Charnock after Paul Wellens and Joe Greenwood joined his side's lengthening injury list following the defeat at Wigan. Former Bradford full-back Curtis Naughton earns his first call-up for Hull, who also have former St Helens hooker Stuart Howarth in their squad. It is fourth against third at the AJ Bell Stadium where Salford will aim to continue their impressive run against a Wigan side on a high from their derby triumph over Saints. Salford, who are aiming to halt a 17-match losing run against the Warriors, are without full-back Kevin Locke after he was concussed in the win at Huddersfield, while Wigan coach Shaun Wane rests Joel Tomkins and Dom Manfredi and recalls Matty Bowen at full-back. Leeds expect to have skipper Kevin Sinfield back from a three-game absence in the top-versus- bottom clash against Wakefield, who are struggling to raise a team, according to coach James Webster. The Wildcats, who have not won at Headingley since 2007, were without 12 senior players for their recent game at Wigan and, although three returned for Thursday's home defeat by Catalans Dragons, their injury worries worsened, with centre Dean Collis among the latest casualties after undergoing emergency surgery for a ruptured testicle. 'We picked up another three or four injuries,' Webster said. 'Has a club ever not fielded a team? We're close to that situation. Monday's going to be a hard job for us, mentally and physically.' In Monday's other game, Hull KR hooker Shaun Lunt will face his parent club after Huddersfield raised no objections following his loan move to Craven Park.
