With Easter Sunday just on the horizon, Christians across American observed Good Friday, which commemorates the crucifixion and death of Jesus Christ. 'Way of the Cross' walks took place in Ohio, Pennsylvania and over the Brooklyn Bridge, among others. These were just a few of the events that were taking place all over the world as Holy Week, which began on Palm Sunday, nears its end. Tens of thousands of people flocked to Pope Francis' Good Friday torchlight procession at the Colosseum in Rome. The pope used the service to stress the persecution of Christians. On Thursday the pope washed the feet of 12 inmates and a baby at Rome's main prison in a pre-Easter ritual meant to show his willingness to serve. NEW YORK. A 'Way of the Cross' procession makes its way from Brooklyn to Lower Manhattan on Good Friday in New York. Firefighter John Bartlett holds the cross as the procession reaches Lower Manhattan. The Way of the Cross is made up of fourteen stations that are related to the hours of Jesus Christ's life leading up to and after his crucifixion. The stations include Jesus carrying the cross, Jesus being nailed to the cross and Jesus being placed in the tomb. CALIFORNIA. An actor portraying Jesus carries a cross as he leads a religious procession in Los Angeles. The actors, which are also portraying Roman soldiers, are reenacting the crucifixion of Jesus Christ. There is no celebration of Mass on Good Friday, which many people fast on and abstain from meat. Good Friday is observed as a national holiday in a number of countries, including Australia, Brazil, Spain and the United Kingdom. Good Friday is not a government holiday in the United States but various states observe it as one, including Connecticut, Louisiana, Texas and New Jersey. INDIANA. An actor portraying Jesus is lashed by 'the Romans' during a reenactment of the Good Friday story in LaPorte, Indiana. During the reenactment, a woman tries to comfort Jesus as he rests for a moment. An actor portraying Jesus is raised on his cross during St. Joseph Catholic Church's rendition of the crucifixion. PENNSYLVANIA. 11-year-old T.J. New carries a wooden cross as members of the Forest Hills ministries march between two Methodist churches in Sidman, Pennsylvania. Members of Holy Annunciation Church in Hazleton walked for two miles throughout the city to commemorate the Stations of the Cross. During the procession women of the parish dressed as the women of Jerusalem and wept as Jesus died. At the 12th station, Jesus, portrayed by Luis Arias, is nailed to the cross. MISSISSIPPI. The crucifixion of Christ is reenacted by members of the Hispanic Ministry of The Cathedral of St. Peter the Apostle in The Passion of Christ in downtown Jackson. Cathedral Rector Fr. Anthony Quyet Nguyen, right, leads parishioners during the reenacting of The Passion of Christ in Smith Park. Victor Gomez, assuming the role of Jesus Christ, carries the cross during the reenaction. A number of members of the church played roles and dressed up for the reenactment. The group is the largest and oldest Catholic Hispanic ministry in the Jackson Diocese. OHIO. Reverand Joshua Michaels carries a cross at the start of a Good Friday cross walk in Andover. Participants in a Good Friday cross walk along Route 7 in the village of Andover. Nicholas Prill, right, and Neftali Ortiz carry a large wooden cross during the Ashtabula Area Ministerium Cross Walk. Participants make their way through Ashtabula. Good Friday is followed by Holy Saturday, which commemorates the day that Jesus Christ's body lay in the tomb.
