TV presenter Lisa Oldfield decided she had to make a change to tackle her weight after her son sketched an unflattering portrait of her. The 40-year-old former Channel 9 host said she barely recognised herself in the drawing, and was horrified to think her sons Harry, 4, and Bert, 2, saw her that way. 'When my son asked me if I was having another baby, that was the catalyst,' Oldfield told Daily Mail Australia. Scroll down for video. TV presenter Lisa Oldfield decided she had to make a change to tackle her weight after her son drew this unflattering portrait of her. Oldfield shared with Daily Mail Australia a picture of her stomach when she removed bandages after the surgery. 'He's delusional, but he thinks I'm the greatest person on the planet. If someone who loves me so much could think that, I knew I had to do something. 'I would try to hide the weight by strategically using my wardrobe, but it felt like I had somebody else's torso. 'I had been thinking about it for a few months and researching it, but that was the final straw.' Oldfield, wife of radio host and former One Nation politician David Oldfield, posted pictures of the 5.5 litres of fat she had removed online. She also showed Daily Mail Australia the aftermath of the surgery, complete with bruises and swelling she said will last 'a few weeks'. 'It's not a pretty picture,' she said. Oldfield posted this photo on her Facebook page of the 5.5L of fat she had removed during her liposuction operation. The mum-of-two said she had to do something, after trying to lose weight on her own. 'In the end, I just had to bite the bullet,' she said. 'I try and stay fit, I walk my dogs and that sort of thing, but I just can't be a slave to a gym. 'I'd rather spend extra hour and a half each night with my kids than with someone I'm paying $100 to scream at me.' Oldfield and her husband, David, who is a radio host and former One Nation politician. One of the main reasons Oldfield wanted to lose weight was so she could take more pictures with her children. Oldfield said she hated looking at pictures of herself after she gained weight. The surgery involved her doctor pumping Ms Oldfield full of water to separate the fat from the skin and muscle, which was then slowly sucked out. It cost $10,000. Oldfield, who still appears on Channel 9 regularly, said she hated looking at pictures of herself due to the weight she gained since having children. Oldfield was motivated to lose weight by her two children, Harry, 4, and Bert, 2. 'I just hated looking and feeling bloated,' she said. 'I have two beautiful little boys and barely any photos of them from the past two years. 'In the few photos we do have, I'm often using them to hide my big tummy.' Oldfield ahead of her Year 10 formal in secondary school. Oldfield and her husband, David, at the Easter Racing Carnival at Randwick Racecourse, in 2007. Oldfield, who works full-time as a sales director, said the fat won't come back. 'One of the benefits of liposuction, is the fat can't come back to where it's been sucked out from,' she said. 'Worst case, I might get a little on my arms - but I have always had skinny arms and legs so I could maybe do with a little there.'
