A football fan is facing a three-year ban after running topless onto a pitch and performing a series of somersaults during his first ever game at the stadium. Charlie Sumner, 20, staged a one-man pitch invasion at Reading's Madejski Stadium during the team's FA Cup quarter final replay with Bradford City last month. The Reading supporter, whose team were 3-0 up at the time, did four front flips on the pitch, landing on his back each time, before being tackled by stewards. Charlie Sumner, 20, staged a one-man pitch invasion at Reading's Madejski Stadium during their quarter final replay with Bradford City last month (pictured) The Reading supporter, whose team were 3-0 up at the time, did four front flips on the pitch, landing on his back each time. Sumner - who said going to his first game was a 'brilliant experience' - is now facing a potential three-year ban for carrying out the stunt. The order, due to be decided on April 30, would stop him going to all Reading's future home and away matches. Sumner, from Wokingham, Berkshire, said he has no regrets about the incident, saying that he had done it for 'laugh' and that his family had 'seen the funny side'. Speaking outside court, he said: 'After doing it and seeing good comments and messages, even from the away fans, I don't look back and regret it. 'Obviously I wouldn't inform other people to do it. It was just spur of the moment. It's good to see good feedback and not negative feedback. 'I'd had a few drinks, I was happy and Reading were winning and I just went for it and had a laugh. It was brilliant.' Asked whether he goes to many Reading matches, he added: 'That was my first game actually. It was a good experience. Obviously being there on the first game - not after what I've done, but standing in the stadium, watching the game from the stadium - it's a brilliant experience. 'Obviously with the ban, I wouldn't be able to experience that experience again.' Charlie Sumner, pictured outside Reading Magistrates' Court. He is facing a potential banning order. After running onto the pitch, Sumner was tackled by stewards. The footage of Sumner's antics went viral. The incident took place on March 16, when the match was being broadcast live to millions of viewers on BBC One. Afterwards, footage of Sumner's antics also went viral on the internet. Sumner, who went to the match with a group of eight friends, said he talked with his friends in a taxi on the way to the match about potentially running on to the pitch. 'I did say no at first. Then Reading were winning and I got a bit excited,' he said. 'I went to rave on Friday and there's another video on Facebook and I'm doing flips there. I've had a few selfies, a few drinks bought for me.' Sumner said he spoke to friends on the way to the stadium about carrying out the stunt. He said he had no regrets and that his family had seen 'the funny side' But Sumner, who works as a dry liner fixing ceilings, said he thought a potential football banning order 'seemed a bit much.' 'I don't want a three year ban because obviously it's quite a bit,' he said. 'I'm not encouraging people do it and if I go to another game, I'm not going to do it again.' At today's hearing, Sumner's solicitor entered a guilty plea on his client's behalf to one count of going on to a playing area at a football match under the Football Offences Act 1991. Sumner, who was at court but missed his hearing after leaving the building briefly, was released on bail with conditions that he does not attend Reading's home or away matches. He will appear at Reading Magistrates' Court on April 30 when a decision will be made on whether he receives a football banning order.
