Build up for Sunday’s Manchester derby has officially started with South American duo Radamel Falcao and Sergio Aguero featuring in a promo video for sponsors Puma. In the aptly-named 'Head to Head,' production, Manchester United forward Falcao and his Manchester City counterpart Aguero do just that as they battle it out in a cage style match. And while the scenario won't replicate the atmosphere at Old Trafford the introduction of both players, as they gear up for their unique encounter is met with fans cheering, dressed in the duo's respective team's colours. South American duo Radamel Falcao (left) and Sergio Aguero feature in a promo video for sponsors Puma. Manchester United striker Falcao awaits the arrival of Aguero - backed by a mass of Red Devils' supporters. Aguero is all smiles at the start of the video as the two rival players get ready for cage style encounter. Falcao (left) tries to go past Aguero during the opening stages of their cage match encounter. United's No 9 (left) leaves Aguero trailing in his wake after producing a piece of skill in the video. However, the Manchester City hitman (left) has Falcao backpedaling as he takes a 2-1 lead in the video. Yet, Falcao (left) has the last laugh as he scores an equaliser to see the match end on a cliffhanger at 2-2. And like for so much of the Premier League era, it is United who take first blood when Falcao shows off his nimble footwork before firing past Aguero. However, it isn't long before the City hitman proves the scourge of the red half of Manchester once more as he nutmegs United's No 9 to equalise before showing all of his predatory qualities to tap home from close range. With both Falcao and Aguero calling on a fan to aid them midway through the encounter, United have the last laugh in the video with a trademark late goal as the former curls home an equaliser to level the scoreline at 2-2. And while the video ends with the scoreline in the balance, neither side will be playing for a draw then they meet for real on Sunday. Manuel Pellegrini’s side travel to Old Trafford looking to secure a Champions League place after defeat to Crystal Palace on Monday all but ended their pursuit of league leaders Chelsea. But, the Chilean could also be fighting to hold on to his job as a lacklustre City look to save what looks to be, by their recent high standards, a disappointing campaign. United, on the other hand, have hit form at exactly the right time and are also looking to secure a Champions League spot having started the season poorly. City boss Manuel Pellegrini witnessed his side limp to a 2-1 defeat at Crystal Palace. Puncheon celebrates his brilliant free kick which all but ended Manchester City's hopes of catching Chelsea. City striker Aguero stands, hands on hips, after seeing his side fall behind at Selhurst Park.
