Ronny Deila  has confirmed Hearts captain Danny Wilson features on a list of Celtic’s summer transfer targets. As Sportsmail revealed on Tuesday, the Scottish champions are considering a £400,000 offer for the former Rangers and Liverpool defender. Wilson has 12 months left on his current contract, with Hearts owner Ann Budge insisting the newly-promoted Edinburgh club have no need to sell. Hearts captain Danny Wilson (right) is a summer transfer target for Celtic and could be signed for £400,000. The defender is out of contract at the end of the season but Hearts are in no rush to sell. With Celtic battling to keep hold of current pairing Virgil van Dijk and Jason Denayer, however, manager Deila admits Wilson is among the potential central-defensive reinforcements being considered. ‘He (Wilson) is one of many names we are looking at,’ the Norwegian conceded. ‘I know all about him, of course. He is a good player but there is nothing in that right now. We are looking for central defenders. That is an important target because of Jason [Denayer] and also because of the situation with Virgil. Hopefully we will keep him.’ Van Dijk has attracted the attention of Sunderland and Southampton while on-loan Denayer will return to parent club Manchester City after making his full international debut for Belgium this week. Desperate to hold on to both ahead of Champions League qualifiers which could potentially be worth £16million to the club, Deila added: ‘First of all, Virgil is our player. He will stay. That’s what we want, to have him through the Champions League. ‘He is so important to us. He still has things to work on to become even better. His chance will come in the future - but he is one of the players we really want to keep. Celtic will face a challenge to keep hold of the services of highly-rated Dutch defender Virgil van Dijk. John Denayer is expected to return to Manchester City after an impressive loan spell in Scotland. ‘Virgil is the leader in the defence, so he is vital for us. Any money we could get for Virgil can’t compare with the money we would get from the Champions League. ‘Jason is a young player, a very good player as well. It is easy to get one player in for him, but not so much if we need two. That’s a totally different thing. I was delighted for Jason he got 30 minutes for Belgium. Again it shows to other players we are doing something right here, that he has come from not playing an important match, ever, to now playing in the first team for Belgium. That’s credit to him and for us as well.’ Repeating the view that Denayer should stay at Celtic to play European football rather than risk a return to the Manchester City reserves, Deila insisted: ‘I think it’s important for him to play, that’s why we sent Liam Henderson to Rosenborg because he needs playing time. I don’t know if he will play or not, I think he will, but it’s a very good experience for him, playing at a big club, with pressure. And the level is hopefully a little bit lower than here and he will get that experience. ‘It’s the same for Jason. City is so hard to play for, if he gets in there he is a world-class player. He is still only 20 so I think he should get more experience here. As it is now, he is going to go back to Manchester City for pre-season.’ PSV winger Zakaria Bakkali is another target for the SPL champions and is available on a free transfer. Budge, meanwhile, insisted that Hearts’ good financial health means there would be no need for them to let Wilson go on the cheap. ‘We have been successful and there will be interest in our players and management team,’ she admitted. ‘But am I confident we can hang on to the majority of the people we currently have. ‘We are in a good bargaining position. We have a fantastic base on which to build and I hope we can hold as much of that as we can. ‘That said, it is a commercial world out there and if someone comes long and offers someone something hugely substantial, then who knows?’ As well as Wilson, Deila admitted Celtic are also trying to tie up players on pre-contract agreements. PSV Eindhoven’s Belgian winger Zakaria Bakkali is one Bosman target, Deila saying: ‘We have three players we are thinking of on Bosman but we haven’t agreed anything with anyone.’
