Roberto  Martinez is backing Ross Barkley to become an even more influential player for Everton and England after negotiating second-season syndrome at Goodison Park. Barkley has had an indifferent campaign for the Toffees on the back of his inclusion in last summer’s England World Cup party and a knee operation which disrupted his return to domestic duty. But England coach Roy Hodgson has kept faith with the 21-year-old and Martinez believes his two substitute appearances for England against Lithuania and Italy over the past week have shown that the midfielder is ready to kick on again. Roberto Martinez is backing Ross Barkley to become an even more influential player for Everton and England. Barkley impressed after coming off the substitutes bench during England's 1-1 draw in Turin. Martinez said: 'Ross is a young man but he is used to having to deal with extremes. When he plays well he is probably the best footballer England has. When he has a bad game it’s the end of the world. 'He has achieved an incredible level of maturity this season. 'He had to go through a period of difficulty the same way we have as a team and I think he has learned a lot. 'It doesn’t surprise me, he has had a big impact when he came on in both games with England. He was ready to do that. Barkley replaced Theo Walcott in the second half and looked bright as the Three Lions earned a draw. The 21-year-old celebrates after scoring for Everton during their 3-0 victory against Newcastle. 'He will benefit from the experiences of this difficult season. This is his second full season in an important role in the squad. He enjoys that responsibility and taking responsibility in big games. 'He has an incredible technical ability and, with the physicality he has, you don’t see many players in world football with those capabilities. 'We know who Ross is and how important he is for the future of Everton.” Everton’s struggles this season have seen them flirt with relegation and although wins over Newcastle and QPR have eased their plight, Martinez insists guaranteeing safety is still their only immediate target going into Saturday’s visit of sixth-placed Southampton. Martinez insists guaranteeing safety is still Everton's only immediate target ahead of Saturday's match. The Everton boss added: 'There’s no distraction from our league position. That’s everything that matters. 'Those two wins have given us a real sense of confidence and belief for what’s in front of us. 'Forty points is still the target. Nothing has changed until we achieve that and then we will try and get as high up the table as we can.' Top scorer Romelu Lukaku will face a fitness test on the hamstring injury that kept him out of Belgium’s internationals but midfielder Darron Gibson is expected to be fit to face the Saints. Wingers Kevin Mirallas and Steven Pienaar have also recovered from injury and could be included. Top scorer Romelu Lukaku (centre) will face a fitness test on his hamstring injury.
