Livingston boss Mark Burchill believes heartbroken midfielder Darren Cole wants to play in Sunday's Petrofac Cup final despite the game coming just a week after the tragic death of his cousin in America. The ex-Rangers youth has been mourning the loss of Shaun Cole, 22, who was found dead in a Miami street last weekend and is thought to have been the victim of a hit-and-run driver. A soldier who had served in Afghanistan, he was on holiday in Florida while on leave and had attended a music festival there before being found on a pavement with a head injury which proved fatal. Livingston boss Mark Burchill is hopeful that midfielder Darren Cole will turn out for his side on Sunday. Livingston star Cole, 23, was close to Shaun and paid tribute to the army private on his Twitter account this week. He wrote: 'I know you won't be here for the rest of our lives but I can promise I'll love you for the rest of mine.' Cole was granted time off by the Championship side as they prepare to face Alloa at McDiarmid Park in their first national final in 11 years. But he returned to training on Wednesday and is due to work with the players again after a squad day off on Thursday. Burchill is not putting any pressure on the 23-year-old to play despite the fact he has been a key member of the team since signing a short-term deal in February. He will give Cole as much time as he needs to grieve and accept whatever decision he makes - but admits that the former Murray Park youngster has given the impression he would like to be involved. Burchill said: 'Darren was away from the club initially and we don't really know what to expect but I am speaking with him constantly to plan with him. 'He came back to training on Wednesday but is still in a bit of shock after what has happened, which is completely understandable. 'If I'm honest, I really don't know if he is going to play so we will need to see how things go once we get towards Saturday and Sunday. 'I think Darren would like to play but he has never been through something like this before in his life. 'Him and Shaun were much closer than a lot of cousins are. They grew up together, were around the same age and lived in the same area. They were best mates. 'Darren and his family want to find out exactly what happened and get a wee bit of closure because they still don't know the circumstances. 'We will do everything we can as a club to keep his head straight. It goes without saying we would like him to be involved and I think he would like to be. 'He is a very aggressive central midfielder and is technically one of the best players at the club with two fantastic feet.' Cole (left) was left heartbroken following the death of his cousin, Shaun, from a suspected hit-and-run.
