What's more exciting than meeting your idol? Meeting your idol in a Starbucks, while wearing a shirt with their name on it, and having your picture uploaded to their Instagram account. One little boy was lucky enough to meet Justin Verlander, pitcher for the Detroit Tigers, under those same, once-in-a-lifetime, circumstances. Verlander snapped a selfie in front a little boy wearing a dark blue shirt with Verlander's name and jersey number, 35, on the back. Scroll down for video. Selfie: Detroit Tigers pitcher Justin Verlander (right) snapped this selfie in front a little boy wearing a dark blue shirt with Verlander's name and jersey number, 35, on the back. Instagram: The pitcher uploaded the selfie to his more than 150,000 Instagram followers writing: 'Love having my fans support!! This little guy was pretty surprised when he turned around' The pitcher uploaded the selfie to his more than 150,000 Instagram followers writing: 'Love having my fans support!! This little guy was pretty surprised when he turned around.' Perhaps 'pretty surprised' is an understatement when a little boy meets his idol, but we'll take Verlander's word for it. This isn't the first time a celebrity has snapped a selfie with an unsuspecting fan. In January, former Philadelphia Phillies pitcher Roy Halladay tweeted a photo to his more than 40,000 Twitter followers of himself in front of a fan who wore a red shirt with the former player's name and jersey number on the back. This guy wasn't so lucky. Apparently, Halladay didn't meet the fan, he tweeted: 'Oopps you missed me! Walked right by me! Hope he gets to see his pic with me on Twitter, he doesn't know we took this.' Fan: In January, former Philadelphia Phillies pitcher Roy Halladay (right) tweeted a photo of himself in front of a fan (left) who wore a red shirt with the former player's name and jersey number on the back. 'Full House' star John Stamos, who played Uncle Jessie, stopped by his TV home in San Francisco last month and went unnoticed by fans checking out the famous house. The 51-year-old actor took a photo of himself in front of the home as the unsuspecting fans marveled at the front of the San Francisco house featured in the opening sequence of the family sitcom. Stamos uploaded the photo to Instagram with the caption: 'Boy, these youngsters have 0.0 idea what they're missing. #Fullhousehouse. #TURNAROUND.' It is unknown if the 'youngsters' ever did, in fact, #TURNAROUND or if they missed their 'old familiar friend.' #TURNAROUND: Last month, 'Full House' star John Stamos (left), who played Uncle Jessie, stopped by his TV home in San Francisco last month and went unnoticed by fans checking out the famous house.
