Tottenham manager Mauricio Pochettino has likened England hot-shot Harry Kane to Gabriel Batistuta and insisted he will be there to help him when things do not go to plan. Kane moved to within two strikes of the 30-goal barrier for the season after scoring on his full international debut some 79 seconds after coming on against Lithuania at Wembley last Friday night. England boss Roy Hodgson is mindful of keeping expectations in check for Kane, who has enjoyed a meteoric rise after finally breaking into the Spurs first-team following loan spells at the likes of Leicester and Norwich. Tottenham manager Mauricio Pochettino has compared Harry Kane to Gabriel Batistuta. Batistuta was an Argentina international who also played for Italian club Roma. Pochettino has said he will be there to help Kane when things are not going to plan for him. Pochettino (right) played alongside Batistuta with the Argentina international team. Former Argentina international Pochettino knows lows can come just as quickly as highs, so will be ready to offer Kane advice whenever it is needed. 'Harry Kane has skills that are similar to different players, including Batistuta. The challenge is doing it all again next season,' said Pochettino, who faced England in the 2002 World Cup finals in the same team as the renowned Argentina forward. 'Now it is up to him. Harry knows the way to improve his ability. He is in a very good moment to keep working hard and develop his game. 'You need to wait for the right moment to give a player the responsibility because sometimes we can see a player is ready, but not quite complete to assume the responsibility and keep the same level. 'Big players always have a good first season - like (Wayne) Rooney, after his first season a lot of people maybe had doubts about the next one, but this is football. 'It is not easy when the player goes down, this is our challenge, but not only with Harry, with all players. 'There may be people who doubt him about next season, but the people that know him understand, like us, know that Harry can keep the level he has shown.' England boss Hodgson wants Kane to continue his international development with the Under 21s this summer, after helping Gareth Southgate's team qualify unbeaten for the June tournament in Portugal. Spurs, meanwhile, are set for an end-of-season trip to Sydney for a match at the ANZ Stadium on May 30, with Kane expected to feature. Kane marked his England debut with a goal against Lithuania, 79 seconds after replacing Wayne Rooney. Roy Hodgson wants Kane to play for England Under 21s at the European Championships in the summer. Tottenham striker Kane (left) is nearing the 30-goal mark after an outstanding season. Pochettino, though, believes with the right discussions a positive solution for all parties can be found to avoid any potential of player burnout. The Tottenham manager said: 'It is only one week in Sydney. We need to analyse after the holidays, the amount of rest he will need (before the start of the 2015-16 campaign). 'Different players need different amounts of rest, so we will have a lot of different dates for players to start their pre-season.'
