Ian Murray reckons a supposedly easier run-in can swing second place Hibs' way ahead of Rangers in the last month of the Championship season. His Dumbarton side have faced both of his former teams in the league this term and will do so once again  in the final weeks of the campaign. But while Stuart McCall's men have the momentum at present - beating Hibs and Cowdenbeath while Alan Stubbs' men also lost to Raith - Murray wouldn't be surprised to see the balance of power swing back towards Easter Road before long. Dumbarton boss Ian Murray believes that Rangers will struggle to maintain their pace through the run-in. Rangers - currently level on points but having played a game less - still have two matches to play against title winners Hearts, including Sunday's match at Ibrox, while the Leith side take on their city rivals just once more. HIBS: April 4 Queen of the South (h); April 8 Dumbarton (a); April 12 Hearts (h); April 22 Livingston (a); April 25 Alloa (h); May 2 Falkirk (a) RANGERS: April 5 Hearts (h); April 9 Queen of the South (a); April 12 Raith (h); April 15 Livingston (a); April 18 Dumbarton (a); April 25 Falkirk (h); May 2 Hearts (a) 'Rangers got a good result against Cowdenbeath last Saturday to keep themselves in contention and I think it's going to be close but I still believe Hibs have the easier run-in,' said Murray. 'They do have tough games as well including one against Hearts and if they're serious about finishing second, they need to beat the likes of ourselves and Queen of the South at Easter Road this Saturday. 'The derby will take care of itself. I think it's going to be really tight and I can't see either side going through the rest of the season undefeated. Both will drop points. 'But the fact Rangers play Hearts twice and one of those games is on the final day of the season doesn't help them. With Hearts getting the trophy at Tynecastle after that match, it doesn't do them any favours as that's a game Rangers might need to win. 'Hibs were favourites to finish second for a while after they beat Rangers 4-0 at Easter Road then 2-0 at Ibrox and because of the lack of form Rangers were showing. Both wins were comfortable and suggested Hibs had overtaken Rangers. Although they've been pegged back since, I still think Hibs are slightly ahead.' Rangers' attacking midfielder Haris Vuckic, on loan from Newcastle, scores against Cowdenbeath at Irbox. The team finishing second face a potential four games to get back into the top flight, while the third team have a potential six. Murray's Dumbarton team are virtually assured of a place in next year's second tier thanks to a 14-point lead over second-bottom Cowdenbeath and could become mathematically safe this weekend after they play Jimmy Nicholl's strugglers on Saturday. But the 34-year-old is adamant his side will still have plenty to play for as they look to have a say in who goes up and down. Murray added: 'We'll play Cowdenbeath and Alloa which is obviously huge for them at the bottom of the table. 'We still have to go to Queens and we've got Rangers and Hibs at home so we've got games that are meaningful for others. 'There's no pressure on us at all now so we can go out and play with a bit more freedom and be a bit more relaxed than normal. 'But it won't be a case of us not turning up. We want to get as big a gap as we can between ourselves and the relegation places.'
