Warrington crashed to a third straight Super League defeat and could be in trouble with the Rugby Football League following crowd trouble in the Cheshire derby. The game was stopped for eight minutes after a flare was thrown from the stand housing visiting fans but Widnes maintained their focus to run out 30-10 winners and maintain their impressive form at the Select Security Stadium, where they have taken seven points out of a possible 10 this year. Warrington's losing run is their worst since 2009 and their misery was compounded by the loss of winger Matty Russell with a leg injury. Following a delay caused by a flare, Widnes condemned Warrington to a third defeat in a row. Widnes, hammered by Salford in their previous outing, were boosted by the return of influential captain Kevin Brown from a three-match absence with a hamstring injury and the Wolves had no answer to his half-back partnership with Joe Mellor. Yet Warrington could hardly have made a better start, with England forward Ben Westwood collecting a rebound from Gareth O'Brien's high kick to score the opening try after only five minutes. It was eight minutes before O'Brien could add the goal as the game was stopped to enable stewards to clear the flare from the pitch and remove the offenders. Once back under way, the game flowed from end to end but, while Widnes scrambled superbly to keep their line intact, the visitors' defence cracked three times as the Vikings found some real potency in their attack. Dangerous full-back Rhys Hanbury got centre Cameron Phelps through a gap for the first try on 10 minutes and, after Russell had hobbled off, his opposite number Stefan Marsh gathered Brown's pinpoint kick for the first of his brace of scores to give his side a lead they never looked like relinquishing. Widnes lost Phelps to injury on 29 minutes, which paved the way for 19-year-old Matt Whitley to make his debut, but they struck again three minutes before the break when Mellor's cut-out gave Marsh a clear run for his second try. Jack Owens managed just one conversion and also missed a long-range penalty attempt on the stroke of half-time but Widnes took only five minutes of the second half to extend their lead. A touchline dash from Owens created the position for hooker Lloyd White to burrow his way over from dummy half for the softest of tries. It went from bad to worse for the visitors when Westwood was sin-binned following the concession of three consecutive penalties by his team and the Vikings immediately took advantage of the extra man when Brown went through a gap for a fifth try. Owens converted both tries to make it 26-6 but Warrington pulled a try back on 64 minutes through makeshift centre Ben Currie after the home side were down to 12 men with Danny Tickle in the sin-bin for a foul on Daryl Clark. Widnes fittingly had the final say when Owens went over three minutes from the end for his side's sixth try.
