All eyes will be on Cristiano Ronaldo when Real Madrid visit Rayo Vallecano in La Liga on Wednesday. The 30-year-old hit five in Real's thumping 9-1 win against Granada at the weekend to take his tally to 36 goals in the league so far. Ronaldo's quintuplet moved him above Lionel Messi in the race for the Pichichi trophy given to the top goalscorer in La Liga at the end of the season. Spanish paper Marca (left) previews Real Madrid's trip to Rayo Vallecano on Wednesday night - with the focus on superstar forward Cristiano Ronaldo after his five-goal haul against Granada at the weekend. And going into Wednesday's Madrid derby, Marca builds up to the match by focusing on Ronaldo. Leading with the headline: 'Captain Thunder against Rayo,' the paper states that Ronaldo 'arrives unleashed after his exhibition against Granada.' In addition Marca adds that Ronaldo will be up against Rayo striker Alberto Bueno - the highest scoring Spaniard in the league at present with 15 goals. Meanwhile in Catalonia, Mundo Deportivo looks ahead to Barcelona's clash against Almeria on Wednesday night - and more so the importance of Lionel Messi. If he plays at the Nou Camp, it would be the 50th consecutive week that the Argentina maestro has done so in the Spanish top flight - dating back to January 11, 2014. Barca coach Luis Enrique says he will make changes against Almeria - but Mundo adds that if Messi isn't spared then it is 'cruel' on the 27-year-old. Meanwhile in Italy, the reaction from Juventus' Coppa Italia semi-final triumph over their bitter rivals Fiorentina continues. Over in Italy, the papers focus on Juventus' 3-0 Coppa Italia semi-final second leg win over Fiorentina. Goals from Alessandro Matri, Roberto Pereyra and Leonardo Bonucci saw Juve overturn a 2-1 first leg deficit to win 4-2 on aggregate at the home of the Viola. Corriere dello Sport hails the visitors' performance with the headline 'Tre-mendous Juventus' adding that manager Massimiliano Allegri produced a tactical masterpiece to seal victory without a number of his regular starters - including star striker Carlos Tevez. Aside from Juventus' win, Corriere dello Sport and Tuttosport both report that Paris Saint-Germain forward Edinson Cavani is being linked with a move to AC Milan. The 28-year-old is reportedly fed up of playing second fiddle to Zlatan Ibrahimovic in the French capital, often shunted out wide to get the best out of the Swedish striker. And Tuttosport adds that the Uruguay international has been offered to Milan - with the deal currently being 'weighed up.'
