Raheem Sterling gave a revealing insight into his future on Wednesday, insisting he was not a money-grabbing 20-year-old despite turning down a Liverpool contract worth £100,000-a-week. The England winger instead pointed to his desire to finish out the season before considering any more offers, focusing on winning trophies with his club for the time being. But how much of what Sterling told BBC Sport can we believe? Sportsmail's Riath Al-Samarrai tries his hand at interpreting. Liverpool star Raheem Sterling gave a revealing insight into his Liverpool talks with BBC Sport. WHAT HE SAID: ‘I would never want the fans to think bad of me, to think I just want as much money for myself. I want them to understand it’s been a bit much for me this season, with everyone talking about it every minute.’ WHAT HE MEANT: Can’t a guy just let his contract run down in peace? WHAT HE SAID: ‘It’s never been about money. I talk about winning trophies throughout my career. That’s all I talk about.’ WHAT HE MEANT:  Finishing the season empty-handed won’t help the situation. Sterling says it is not about money, only about trophies - so can Liverpool afford to not win any this season? WHAT HE SAID: ‘I don’t talk about how many cars I’m going to drive, how many houses I’ve got. I just purely want to be the best I can be.’ WHAT HE MEANT: If you’re wondering, I drive a Mercedes C63 and also have a Range Rover 4x4. They are both white. WHAT HE SAID: ‘You really want to be working with world-class players day in, day out. It’s obviously left a little dent, these two world-class superstars (Suarez and Gerrard) leaving, but I think we have good players coming through at Liverpool.’ WHAT HE MEANT::Players come and go. Deal with it. Sterling rejected Liverpool's contract offer of £100,000-a-week and says he is focusing on his football. WHAT HE SAID: On speculation that Arsenal are keen: ‘Quite flattering.’ WHAT HE MEANT:  Auctions are always better when more people turn up. WHAT HE SAID: ‘Everyone’s dream growing up is seeing themselves in an away kit somewhere in a sunny country. But, in reality, I’m happy to be playing for Liverpool and trying to win trophies.’ WHAT HE MEANT:  Barcelona and Madrid are nice cities. And warm, too. The 20-year-old England international has been linked with moves to Arsenal, Real Madrid and Barcelona. WHAT HE SAID: ‘If, at that point in time, I was offered a contract, I most definitely would have signed straight away, probably for far less money than being said now. I just think the timing was a bit off.’ WHAT HE MEANT:  You need me more than ever now. WHAT HE SAID: ‘I just want to focus on football and, when it gets to the end of the season, assess my position as a 20-year-old player playing in the Premier League.’ WHAT HE MEANT:  Literally all of the power in this situation is with me. Sterling holds all the power at Liverpool and has been one of Brendan Rodgers' star performers this season.
