Sportsmail will be providing you with all you need to know about every Barclays Premier League fixture, with team news, provisional squads, betting odds and Opta stats. Here is all the information you need for Aston Villa's home clash with QPR... Aston Villa vs Queens Park Rangers (Villa Park) Team news. Aston Villa. Aston Villa boss Tim Sherwood is definitely without a trio of key players for their key game with QPR. Alan Hutton limped off in Saturday's 3-1 defeat at Manchester United with an ankle problem and has been ruled out of Tuesday's game along with Scott Sinclair and Ashley Westwood. Alan Hutton (left) attempts to play a pass under pressure from Manchester United's Daley Blind in Aston Villa's 3-1 Barclays Premier League defeat at Old Trafford on Saturday. Philippe Senderos and Kieran Richardson (both calf) are doubts along with Tom Cleverley (adductor) and Aly Cissokho (groin) - although they are training - while Libor Kozak is sidelined as he continues to recover from a broken leg. Provisional squad: Guzan, Given, Lowton, Okore, Vlaar, Clark, Cissokho, Kinsella, Delph, Gil, Sanchez, Grealish, Cole, Cleverley, Richardson, N'Zogbia, Agbonlahor, Benteke, Weimann. QPR. QPR are without Chilean winger Eduardo Vargas and South Korean left-back Yun Suk-young for Tuesday's Barclays Premier League clash at Aston Villa. Vargas is ruled out with a knee injury sustained in the 4-1 win at West Brom while Yun will not travel to Villa Park for precautionary reasons after suffering a head injury in the same match. Eduardo Vargas jumps in an attempt to beat West Brom's Chris Baird to the ball in QPR's 3-1 win at the Hawthorns in the Barclays Premier League on Saturday. Hoops boss Chris Ramsey is also without knee-injury victims Richard Dunne, Leroy Fer and Alejandro Faurlin while Darnell Furlong is still sidelined with a calf problem. Provisional squad: Green, Isla, Onuoha, Caulker, Hill, Phillips, Sandro, Barton, Kranjcar, Austin, Zamora; Hoilett, Grego-Cox, McCarthy, Henry, Doughty, Sutherland. Kick-off: Tuesday, 7.45pm. Odds (subject to change):. Aston Villa 21/20. Draw 9/4. QPR 11/4. Referee: Craig Pawson. Managers: Tim Sherwood (Aston Villa), Chris Ramsey (QPR) Head-to-head league record: Aston Villa wins 12, draws 10, QPR wins 21. Key match stats (supplied by Opta) Aston Villa have scored just seven goals in their last 20 Premier League matches against London sides, and never more than once in a match in that time (W2 D3 L15). QPR have not won back-to-back away games in the Premier League since September 1995. Christian Benteke has scored four goals in his last four league games for Tim Sherwood’s side, more than he had netted in his previous 21 (3). Charlie Austin has been involved in 20 of QPR’s 35 league goals this season (16 goals, four assists). The last season that Queens Park Rangers won both home and away in the league against Aston Villa was back in 1986/87. Charlie Austin celebrates scoring his and QPR's second goal in their 2-0 win over Aston Villa at Loftus Road. Aston Villa have won five and drawn one of their six Premier League games against the Hoops at Villa Park. QPR’s last league win at Villa Park came back in March 1992 (1-0). QPR have scored in each of their last 12 Premier League matches against Aston Villa. Aston Villa have won just one of their last eight Premier League home games (W1 D3 L4). Villa have failed to find the net in four of these eight matches.
