A period of striving came to an end for Liverpool and Brendan Rodgers at the Emirates on Saturday. Hope expired. The manager's 15-minute press conference, where he conceded that his team's chances of qualifying for the Champions League were over, was a requiem for lost opportunities. Rodgers did his best to stay upbeat. The Liverpool manager does not do disconsolate. But he did not pretend that this has not been a difficult season. After their heroic tilt at the title last year, Liverpool have slipped out of contention. It is a bitter pill to swallow for a club that had scented a return to glory. It still feels as if Liverpool are moving forward under Rodgers. It still feels as if he has the confidence, the ability and the strategy to take them back to the top. But there is no disguising the fact that this is an uncomfortable, uncertain time for the manager and his players. Brendan Rodgers admitted Liverpool are unlikely to reach the top four after losing to Arsenal 4-1 on Saturday. Right back Hector Bellerin gave Arsenal the lead as the Gunners went on to win 4-1 at the Emirates. Just four minutes later, Mesut Ozil had doubled the lead for the home side with this brilliant free kick. Alexis Sanchez got in on the goalscoring act just before half-time to give Arsenal an unassailable lead. When they went on a run in which they lost only once in 17 league games from mid-November through to mid-March, it seemed like last season's magic was coming back. But when that 2-1 home defeat by Manchester United was followed by a crushing 4-1 loss to Arsenal, the perspective changed. Suddenly, the troubles are crowding in on Rodgers. He spent much of his press conference answering questions about Raheem Sterling's refusal to sign the new contract he has been offered. It also became clear there was a new controversy involving Mario Balotelli. When asked why Balotelli was not in the squad, Rodgers found it hard to disguise his frustration. 'He took a slight knock to his knee and he deemed it not able to travel with the team,' Rodgers said. 'He felt it was too sore to travel. The medical staff have looked at it but it was just something that he, himself, did not feel comfortable enough to travel with.' The problems with Balotelli, his failure to settle into Rodgers's system, are symbols of the difficulties the club has faced in a season dominated by trying to adapt to life after Luis Suarez and by the long, melancholy farewell to Steven Gerrard, and it has not been easy. Liverpool missed the suspended Gerrard. They missed Martin Skrtel even more. At times, their defending was shambolic. Rodgers spent most of his press conference fielding questions about contract rebel Raheem Sterling. Mario Balotelli was not included in the Liverpool squad to face Arsenal after picking up a slight knock. Rodgers revealed that Balotelli withdrew himself from the squad and did not travel to London. Daniel Sturridge is still feeling his way back from injury and he has not yet rediscovered his confidence. His injury problems added to the sense of loss brought by the transfer of Suarez to Barcelona. Then there is the fact that several of their close-season buys, notably Dejan Lovren, Balotelli and Adam Lallana, have not come close to fulfilling expectations. Emre Can has been a success, Jordan Henderson has had a fine season and Philippe Coutinho has emerged as an outstanding midfielder but nevertheless, failure to make the top four will bring about new problems. Rodgers admitted that the lack of Champions League football would make it harder for the club to hang on to their best players. Wednesday's FA Cup quarter-final replay against Blackburn had now become 'very, very important,' Rodgers admitted. 'The summer was very difficult with losing Luis,' Rodgers said. 'Daniel [Sturridge] was injured from the beginning of the season and the whole integration of new players was an issue. It was like starting again. It was like my first six months. Daniel Sturridge, a second-half substitute at the Emirates, has spent most of the season out injured. It was difficult viewing for Liverpool manager Rodgers as his side imploded in the first half against Arsenal. Long-serving captain Steven Gerrard will leave the cub at the end of the season and join LA Galaxy. 'Up to the defeat against Manchester United we were the form team and playing very, very well. We have been dealt two big blows in these last two games. I very much doubt we will be in the top four now. There is too much ground to make up. That is the realistic view from me. 'Now we must really focus on the FA Cup and that is going to be very, very important for us. There has been a lot of learning that has taken place this year. Young players have improved as the season has gone on and hopefully now we can finish strongly. We need to go into next year and make a really bright start in the opening eight games.' Change is coming. Gerrard, a club icon for nearly 20 years, will be playing in Los Angeles by the time the new season begins. His departure will draw a line under an era at Anfield. Saturday's defeat means that Liverpool's new age will dawn with a team that, once again, has much to prove.
