Tim Sherwood has insisted Aston Villa’s impending summer takeover is not a concern and he plans to build a squad in his image for next season provided the club stay up. Randy Lerner is understood to be in detailed discussions with a prospective buyer and should a new man claim ownership doubts will inevitably be raised about Sherwood’s position. But the Villa manager is fully focussed on steering his side to safety, before using the closed season to implement long-term plans. Aston Villa manager Tim Sherwood insists he is not concerned by talks of a takeover. Christian Benteke celebrates scoring as Aston Villa thrash Sunderland last month. Benteke took part in Aston Villa's training session on Thursday ahead of their trip to Manchester United. The forward was joined by midfielder Fabian Delph (left) who is fresh from international duty with England. Delph (centre) and the Villa squad were put through their paces ahead of Saturday's game vs United. Ashley Westwood (left) fends off a challenge from team-mate Jack Grealish (centre) on Thursday. ‘I haven’t heard that,’ said Sherwood. ‘I mean there’s a buyer out there for Man United probably – it’s going to have to be a rich one! ‘I think every club out there is for sale, I haven’t heard anything though. ‘It’s not a concern, I just have to do my job. My job is to prepare the team and keep them in the league this year.’ Villa are three points above the relegation zone in 16th following late defeat by Swansea in their last match before the international break. They face Manchester United on Saturday at Old Trafford before Queens Park Rangers visit on Tuesday night. Sherwood added: ‘I feel very pleased to have got the opportunity to manage this great club. It is a dream job for me if we stay in the league, it gives me a pre-season to build my own squad. ‘I couldn’t have hand picked a better job, but we need to get over the line. It was obviously going to be a difficult task. Nobody said it was going to be easy. There will be lots of ups and downs along the way but I’m confident we can do it.’ Sherwood overseas Villa's training session on Thursday as they bid to avoid Premier League relegation. Sherwood laughs during an interview with Chief Sports Writer Martin Samuel in February.
