England have finally arrived home from Turin after their delayed flight landed at Manchester Airport following Tuesday night's 1-1 draw with Italy. The squad had originally been set to leave northern Italy immediately after the game but a technical issue with their plane made it necessary for Roy Hodgson's men to take an extra night's stay. Stopping in Manchester for the side's northern-based players and staff before moving on to London, players from Manchester United, Manchester City, Everton, Liverpool, Aston Villa and Stoke City all left to rejoin their clubs ahead of a full programme in the Barclays Premier League this weekend. Michael Carrick (left) and Wayne Rooney (right) lead the northern-based England players off the flight home. England's plane landed in Manchester to allow their northern-based players and staff, including Carrick and Rooney (left) and Gary Neville (right) to disembark after the draw with Italy in Turin. Jordan Henderson makes his way down the steps from England's delayed flight home from Turin. Everton pair Phil Jones (left) and Ross Barkley (right) will be back into training ahead of facing Southampton. The squad had originally been set to leave northern Italy on Tuesday night but their flight home was delayed. Wayne Rooney, Joe Hart, Chris Smalling, Phil Jones, Ross Barkley, Phil Jagielka, Jordan Henderson, Michael Carrick, Fabian Delph and Jack Butland were among the party leaving the plane in Manchester. Andros Townsend was England's hero on Tuesday night, equalising with 11 minutes to play at the Juventus Stadium after Southampton's Graziano Pelle had opened the scoring for the hosts. Townsend along with his Tottenham team-mates Ryan Mason, Harry Kane and Kyle Walker touched down at Luton Airport on Wednesday afternoon as they said their goodbyes to Chelsea defender Gary Cahill and Southampton's Nathaniel Clyne. Hodgson's squad next meet up at the end of the club season in June for their Dublin friendly against Republic of Ireland and a trip to Slovenia that should see them reinforce their position as comfortable leaders at the top of European Championship qualifying group E. England hero Andros Townsend (right) gets off the plane at Luton Airport on Wednesday with Nathaniel Clyne. The pair were joined by Tottenham trio Ryan Mason (left), Harry Kane (centre) and Kyle Walker. Kane says his goodbyes to international team-mate Gary Cahill at Luton Airport on Wednesday afternoon. Jagielka shakes hands with Henderson as the Merseyside rivals head back to their respective clubs. Chris Smalling was substituted on Tuesday night with illness but did not have to be escorted from the plane. Goalkeeper Joe Hart will be heading back to Manchester City ahead of their trip to Crystal Palace on Monday. After a difficult start to the game in Turin, England finished positively with Barkley one of the stadn-out performers. The Everton midfielder has had a difficult season but once again showed his potential to reach the top in an England shirt. 'Ross is a terrific player,' Rooney said afterwards. 'He is a terrific young player and I think he can have an impact when he comes on. 'He did that, he took the ball, he ran at the Italian defenders and made it difficult for them. 'Hopefully, he can kick on now for the rest of the season.' Phil Jones started in midfield but moved into defence where he will play for Manchester United this weekend. Everton midfielder  Barkley will be hoping he can raise his club form to match his Tuesday performance. Andros Townsend celebrates his equaliser with his England team-mates at the Juventus Stadium on Tuesday.
