An aspiring country singer from West Virginia has become a viral sensation after he posted a video of himself online singing to his uncle who has Down syndrome. Travis Hatfield, 21, from Gilbert, West Virginia sung a George Jones hit to his 47-year-old uncle, Jamie Joe Cline. 'He is a big part in my life and I don't know what I would do without him. He's one of the sweetest people I have ever met,' wrote Travis on his Facebook page. Sweet serenade: Travis Hatfield sung a George Jones song to his 47-year-old uncle, Jamie Joe Cline, who has Down syndrome. The video went viral onine. 'Just wanted everyone to see what our weekends together consist of!' he continued. The video of the two of them playing music together and singing He Stopped Loving Her Today has gone viral with more than 410,000 views so far. 'When I made the video it was made just to be sent to friends because everybody loves him. I just wanted them to see him happy and singing a little bit.' said Travis. In the video,Travis sings and his uncle chimes in with occasional lines as he recognizes parts of the song. Family fun: The pair sing together at least once a week. Uncle Jamie lives with Travis after his parets died a few years ago. At one stage the pair belt out the song with such passion, they are both in tune. 'He is the inspiration,' Hatfield told WOWK radio. 'His love for music is probably stronger than mine, honestly. Every day he is blasting his radio out.' Going up in West Virginia, Travis says he was surrounded by country music and knew he wanted to be a singer from about the age of six. Travis and Jamie team up to hit the high notes at least once a week during which time the duo can sing anything from George Jones, to Jason Aldean, to Brantley Gilbert. Uncle Jamie has lived with Travis for more than a decade since his uncle's parents died. Ambition: Travis says he had long dreamed of becoming a country singer and is now receiving offers from Nasville. Travis says he is now finding that because of the popularity of the video, he has fans all over the country and has even taken calls from Nashville record labels. He vows that if all goes well he will be auditioning for The Voice for the 2016 season. He is currently working on a CD that consists of 12 original songs and hopes to release his music soon. The budding performer says he also hopes to take a trip to Tennessee and visit Music City USA before long to hopefully secure a record deal his family can be proud of.
