Tottenham manager Mauricio Pochettino is in no doubt goalkeeper Michel Vorm has the strength of character to put his Capital One Cup final disappointment behind him and again prove an able deputy for  Hugo Lloris at Burnley on Sunday. With France international Lloris sidelined by a knee injury, Dutchman Vorm will stand in at Turf Moor. The 31-year-old, signed from Swansea in the summer, had to watch on from the bench at Wembley against Chelsea in last month's League Cup final defeat, despite having featured in the earlier rounds. Michel Vorm is set to deputise in place of Hugo Lloris when Tottenham play Burnley on Sunday. Lloris sustained a knee injury in Tottenham's 4-3 victory over Leicester in the Premier League. Mauricio Pochettino has praised Vorm's attitude despite being behind Lloris in the pecking order. Pochettino, however, has every confidence Vorm can produced the required performance when thrown back into the action against the Clarets. 'Michel took it very well. I have no worries about him. He is a good professional and he is fine,' the Argentinian said. 'It is always it is difficult and it was the same with the other players who were left out. 'I was sorry for him, but also for the players who were on the bench or out of the squad. It is always difficult when you play a final and you have to choose the starting 11.' Pochettino has been impressed by Vorm's mentality, having left a regular starting place at Swansea to play back-up to Lloris. 'When I spoke with him about signing, he knew - I never lied to him. I told him our proposal and were very clear,' the Spurs boss said. Vorm (centre) played in all of the Capital One Cup games for Tottenham except the final. Pochettino (left) will again take on Burnley manager Sean Dyche at Turf Moor on Sunday. Tottenham head to Burnley in some positive form, having lost just once in the last four Barclays Premier League matches before the international break - and that at Manchester United. Pochettino, though, knows a solid collective defensive performance will be key against a side battling for their top-flight survival. 'We need to concede fewer chances and goals, but this is not about the keeper or the centre-back or the full-back or the holding midfielder - this is about the balance of the team,' he said.
