The title race may be over in the minds of some, but Joe Hart is irrepressibly optimistic. Of course, he is paid to believe but there is some logic to his positivity when you consider how Manchester City won the league in 2012 and 2014 with late dramatic runs. ‘It’s kind of how we do it,’ said Hart, when asked about City’s need to overcome a nine-point deficit. ‘We like to do it a different way. We’ve not necessarily reached the standard week-in, week-out that we wanted to, but the beauty of football is that you get another chance and that starts on Monday at Crystal Palace. ‘We’ve got some massive games; eight big games to reach a level that we need to reach. We’ve not necessarily done that all season but we feel we are in the right place now. We have a lot of rest time and there are no excuses. Everyone is fit and ready to go. We will never give up.’ Manchester City goalkeeper Joe Hart insists his side are still capable of winning the Premier League title. Chelsea are nine points clear of Manchester City with both teams having eight games left to play. Chelsea are nine points clear of Manchester City. Hart is a good cheerleader. Last week he won his 50th cap at the age of 27 and was immensely proud of his achievement. And his club may need his leadership now. At the Etihad Stadium two weeks ago there was a distinct lack of fervour despite the 3-0 win over West Brom, as though a certain kind of resignation has set in regarding Manchester City’s trajectory but Hart does not accept that. ‘We’ve proved it and the fans have proved it – we never give up,’ he said. ‘That is one thing that is part of Manchester City that we’ve taken with us from the olden days. We’ll never give up while anything is possible. We’ll go for it. ‘We have definitely moved on as a team since we first won the league in 2012. That was a massive achievement but now we expect it of ourselves. We have been disappointed at certain times this season but there are eight games to go and we’ll give it all we’ve got.’ Hart himself is a good example of the adage that one should never give in. Dropped last season by Manuel Pellegrini and threatened this season by the £6million signing of Willy Caballero, Hart is playing as well as ever, his penalty save against Lionel Messi and the subsequent performance at the Nou Camp a product of a long period of good form. Hart has proven his class after being dropped last season following a handful of mistakes. ‘I feel pushed,’ said Hart. ‘I have personal pride. I push myself personally. I think the world of Willy. I think he is a fantastic goalkeeper and I know full well that if my standards drop, Willy will be in goal. That is how it is at Manchester City. That is how it is with England. I know it is the same thing here. I need to be on my toes and performing at a high level otherwise someone takes your spot.’ And Hart is not content with game, striving to better himself. ‘I can improve everything, management of the game. But I want to improve on everything and don't just say that lightly. I look at everything I do. You don’t set limits. I want to keep going and keep pushing and keep my place in the two teams I’m with – Manchester City and England. I hope the best is to come. That is what I’ll be pushing to do. ‘Every game is a rescheduled goal for me. It genuinely is. I’ve enjoyed the two games with England but I turn my head to Palace now. That is the next game for me and the one I’m looking forward to.’ Hart labelled Buffon, who won his 147th cap against England on Tuesday night, a 'legend of the game' And if he needed any inspiration in that quarter, a look across to his opposite number on Tuesday night at the Juventus Stadium would have provided it. As Hart won that 50th cap for England, Gianluigi Buffon was winning his 147th at the age of 37 and proving as sharp as ever. The England goalkeeper is a fan. ‘It’s hard to look past Buffon. He’s absolutely amazing. What a keeper – 147 caps, countless titles, the World Cup, European trophies. What a goalkeeper and what a gentleman. He’s real idol of mine and it’s a real privilege to share a pitch with him. ‘I’ve got a long way to go. But to see people like that at the top level is a real good feeling. I like him. I’ve watched his career and how he is around people. It’s a small amount of time you spend with people when you are in the tunnel with them but he oozes class. 'He is a classy guy and it’s great to have an icon like that. Fraser Forster played against Juventus a few times and said the same thing.’ Only in one area will Hart not be emulating Buffon. With his designer stubble, flowing hair, and his silk waist coat and designer shirt, Buffon looked a little more like a successful artist or film-maker than a footballer as he left the Juventus stadium. ‘He does look cool,’ said Hart, with a degree of self deprecation. ‘I’ll never try to be him. With my mousey blonde hair, it wouldn’t really work.’
