Ahead of this weekend's Premier League action, Sportsmail will be providing you with all you need to know about every fixture, with team news, provisional squads, betting odds and Opta stats. Here is all the information you need for Chelsea's home clash with Stoke... Chelsea vs Stoke City (Stamford Bridge) Team news. Chelsea. Chelsea will make a late decision on whether Diego Costa will play in Saturday's match with Stoke. The striker suffered a hamstring injury in the Premier League leaders' win at Hull last time out and withdrew from Spain duty, but may not be risked despite being passed fit following the international break. Chelsea's Diego Costa may not be risked against Stoke following a hamstring injury. Midfielder John Obi Mikel will not be considered despite recovering from his knee problem. Provisional squad: Courtois, Cech, Ivanovic, Luis, Fabregas, Zouma, Ake, Ramires, Oscar, Hazard, Drogba, Remy, Costa, Matic, Willian, Cuadrado, Cahill, Terry, Azpilicueta, Blackman, Loftus-Cheek. Stoke. Stoke forward Jonathan Walters is expected to shake off a calf knock in time to be available for Saturday's Barclays Premier League trip to leaders Chelsea. Defender Marc Muniesa is set to return to the matchday squad after missing five games because of a hamstring problem. Stoke's Jonathan Walters (14) challenges Poland's Jakub Wawrzyniak for the ball as the  striker featured in Republic of Ireland's 1-1 draw at the Aviva Stadium during last week's Euro 2016 qualifier. The Potters also have Victor Moses fit again - but he will not be able to feature this weekend as the opposition is the on-loan winger's parent club. Provisional squad: Begovic, Butland, Shawcross, Wilson, Wollscheid, Muniesa, Bardsley, Pieters, Teixeira, Cameron, Whelan, Adam, Nzonzi, Sidwell, Ireland, Arnautovic, Diouf, Walters, Crouch. Kick-off: Saturday, 5.30pm - Sky Sports 1. Odds (subject to change):. Chelsea 2/7. Draw 9/2. Stoke 10/1. Referee: Jonathan Moss. Managers: Jose Mourinho (Chelsea), Mark Hughes (Stoke) Head-to-head league record: Chelsea wins 40, draws 18, Stoke wins 23. Key match stats (supplied by Opta) Chelsea are the only team in the four divisions of English football who have not lost a home match in the league this season. The Potters have failed to score in six of the last seven Premier League games against Chelsea. Chelsea have won 10 and lost just one of the 13 Premier League meetings with Stoke City. Stoke City have scored 97 goals away from home in Premier League history. After winning 10 straight Premier League home matches, Chelsea have scored only once in each of their last four and drawn three of them (W1). Cesc Fabregas celebrates scoring late on in Chelsea's 2-0 win at Stoke back in December. The Blues have conceded just eight goals in their last 22 Premier League matches at Stamford Bridge, keeping 16 clean sheets in that run. Chelsea have kept five clean sheets in a row against Stoke at Stamford Bridge and overall they have kept nine shut outs in 13 Premier League meetings. Peter Crouch has scored just seven Premier League goals this season, but they have won Stoke City nine points. Conversely, Diego Costa’s 19 PL goals have only earned Chelsea eight points. Chelsea have opened the goalscoring in 23 of their 29 Premier League games this season; more often than any other side. The Blues have not allowed their opponents a single shot on target in four games this season; no other side has stopped opponents on more than two occasions.
