We spend a third of our lives asleep, but most of us don't pay attention to what our mind and body actually need during these resting hours in order to feel refreshed every day. The Sleep Health Foundation have released a study reporting that 30 percent of Australians complain about their lack of sleep on a daily basis. According to Chair Professor David Hillman, those misplaced hours of sleep must be paid back in order to be functional for the entire week. A study has outlined that 30 percent of Australians complain about their lack of sleep on a daily basis. The average adult needs around eight hours of sleep per night with a range of seven to nine. The average amount of sleep for an adult is around eight hours, with a range of seven to nine, the ABC have reported. Any less than six hours or any more than 10 hours is unusual for the standard person. Professor Hillman added that our sleep pattern is influenced by how much we are willing to compromise from the work week. 'A lot of us pay back a bit of that debt on the weekend but I think it's possible to exist in a sort of tolerable, sleep-restricted state,' he said. 'In other words you're not optimal, but you're still functional.' Pushing these sleep-debt boundaries can lead to micro sleeps in certain people. Therefore, the hours must be paid back to avoid an error rate in alertness tasks. Any less than six or any more than ten hours is unusual for the standard person. If power napping, it is important to get no more than 20 minutes or inertia will set in. In relation to a sleep schedule, Professor Hillman said the eight hours per night does not necessarily need to be consecutive. 'Interestingly enough, your slow wave sleep, is in the first four hours,' he said. 'Most adults, the most convenient way our particular society is organised is to have your eight hours in a continuous block overnight but that's not a necessary thing.' If choosing to break up your eight hours of sleep, napping throughout the day is the answer. Professor Hillman advises 20 minute power naps to avoid falling into deep sleep and suffering from inertia which makes you feel temporarily worse off. 'The longer naps, you get the sleep inertia but ultimately once you've got up, they sustain you better,' he said. Professor Hillman has also advised that if you are waking up tired and fatigued it could be due to sleep apnoea which is often associated with snoring.
