A mother and her teenage daughter have been arrested after a video of them fighting with a student at a high school was posted online. The pair were caught on camera at Langham Creek High School, in Houston on Tuesday. The mother, who has not been identified, was reportedly angry with the girl because she had allegedly been bullying her daughter, reports Channel 2. Scroll down for video. A mother and her teenage daughter have been arrested after a video of them fighting with a student at a high school was posted online. The mom is seen in a black top on the right and the victim is center wearing white. The mother, who has not been identified, was reportedly angry with the girl because she had allegedly been bullying her daughter, reports Channel 2. The video, which was posted online, but has now been taken down, shows the mother -  wearing jeans and black top - attacking the student along with another girl - presumably her daughter. At one point the student's hair extension is ripped out as she cries out in pain and tries to escape. A circle of students watch the brawl from the sidelines. School security guards and staff manage eventually break up the fight, reports Click2Houston. The video, which was posted online, but has now been taken down, shows the mother - wearing jeans and black top - attacking the student along with another girl - presumably her daughter. A spokesperson for Cypress-Fairbanks Independent School District said the mother bypassed the school's front desk and then joined her daughter in physically assaulting the student. A spokesperson for Cypress-Fairbanks Independent School District said the mother bypassed the school's front desk and then joined her daughter in physically assaulting the student. Assistant school superintendent Nicole Ray told KHOU: 'We are outraged and disappointed by the incident that took place today. 'This type of behavior will not be tolerated.' The Harris County Sheriff's Office and Harris County District Attorney's Office are now investigating. The brawl took place at Langham Creek High School, in Houston on Tuesday (file photo)
