England will not be playing in the Under 19 European Championships this summer after losing 2-1 to France in their decisive final qualifier. Having beaten Denmark and Azerbaijan in their opening Elite Round qualifiers, the Young Lions had to beat France in Saint-Lo to advance to July's finals in Greece. But goals from Sehrou Guirassy and Gnaly Cornet put the hosts in command and a late response from Fulham's Patrick Roberts wasn't enough to rescue Sean O'Driscoll's team. Patrick Roberts was on target for England's Young Lions against France but it wasn't enough to qualify. Boosted by the return of Tottenham Hotspur midfielder Harry Winks from suspension, O'Driscoll reverted to the line-up that had beaten Denmark 3-2 late last week. A swirling wind in Normandy made playing conditions difficult, with any long balls ineffective, and consequently the first period saw very few chances. France managed to take one of theirs, however, just after the half-hour mark. Neal Maupay fired the ball into a crowded penalty area and Guirassy had the presence of mind to divert it past England goalkeeper Angus Gunn. Chelsea' Izzy Brown came close to equalising shortly before half-time but sent Demarai Gray's cross over the bar inside the six-yard box. Sean O'Driscoll's team have missed out on this summer's European Championship finals in Greece. France's second goal, five minutes into the second half, left England with a mountain to climb. Maupay again provided the assist, passing to Cornet to drill the ball in off the near post. The home side were almost over the finish line but there was a flicker of hope for England when Roberts halved the deficit from a Ruben Loftus-Cheek cross 11 minutes from time. But England required a further two goals because of their inferior goal difference in the group and there was to be no late drama as their Euro ambitions faded. England (4-1-4-1): Angus Gunn (Manchester City); Ashley Smith-Brown (Manchester City), Joe Gomez (Charlton Athletic), Brendan Galloway (Everton), Ben Chilwell (Leicester City); Harry Winks (Tottenham Hotspur); Patrick Roberts (Fulham), Ruben Loftus-Cheek (Chelsea), Charlie Colkett (Chelsea), Demarai Gray (Birmingham City); Izzy Brown (C; Chelsea). Substitutions: Ola Aina (Chelsea) for Smith-Brown 76; Bradley Fewster (Middlesbrough) for Colkett 82. Substitutes not used: Freddie Woodman (Newcastle United), Alex Kiwomya (Chelsea), Aaron Kuhl (Reading), Robert Dickie (Reading). Scorer: Roberts 79. Booked: Colkett 58, Aina 83. Head coach: Sean O’Driscoll. France: Florian Escales, Angelo Fulgini, Mouctar Diakhaby, Abdou Diallo, Olivier Kemen (C), Gnaly Cornet, Samed Kilic, Neal Maupay, Sehrou Guirassy, Alex Blin, Lucas. Substitutions: Lucas Tousart for Kilic 46; Benjamin Pavard for Kemin 67; Ulrich Nnomo for Guirassy 84. Substitutes not used: Bingourou Kamara, Nicolas Senzemba, Kingsley Coman, Lyes Houri. Scorers: Guirassy 31; Cornet 50. Booked: Maupay 25, Kemen 45. Head coach: Patrick Gonfalone. Referee: Marco Guida (ITA) Attendance: 3,372.
