NRL referees and officials have been struck with projectiles by angry supporters after a tight contest between South Sydney and Canterbury ended in controversy. Rabbitohs sealed a final minute 18-17 victory over the Bulldogs in an absorbing encounter at ANZ Stadium in Sydney during the Good Friday showdown. But fans turned on referee Gerard Sutton and his colleagues after they penalised Bulldogs captain James Graham in the final minute, effectively handing the Rabbitohs the win. As referees, officials and players made their way off the field and towards the tunnel after full time, a section of the crowd started hurling  plastic water bottles and abuse at them. Sideline interchange official Darren Alchin has been taken to hospital with a suspected broken shoulder after he slipped to avoid being hit with bottles as he fell to the ground. Scroll down for video. A touch judge is hit by a bottle at the end of the Round 5 NRL match between the Canterbury Bankstown Bulldogs and the South Sydney Rabbitohs at ANZ Stadium in Sydney on Friday. David Klemmer and James Graham confront referee Gerard Sutton after awarding Rabbitohs a late penalty. It's understood Sutton slipped over as he attempted to dodge the missiles for cover. He was assisted to his feet and moved to the officials room after he managed to escape with no injuries. A NSW police spokeswoman has confirmed to Daily Mail Australia that two people have been formally identified for allegedly throwing bottles as they continue to investigate the incident. 'Police will be taking legal action against them while inquiries to identify others involved are continuing,' a police statement said. Canterbury coach Des Hasler has apologised on behalf of his club over the actions of some fans after objects were thrown. 'I just want to offer an apology on behalf of the club,' Hasler said. 'I've been to see the refereeing official who was I think struck by a projectile he's ok but that is not us, that is not what this club is about and it's not what sport in this country is about. 'Unfortunately the behaviour of a few can kind of ruin it and spoil it for everybody. 'On behalf of all the officials and the players and everybody involved with the club, our sincerest apologies for what appeared and it won't happen again.' A Bulldogs supporter gestures at the end of the match after a controversial penalty was awarded to Souths. Canterbury chief executive Raelene Castle said the incident will be investigated and the club has called for a life ban on fans who were involved in the attack. Canterbury chief executive Raelene Castle said the club has called for a life ban from all NRL fixtures on fans who were responsible in the attack as they investigate the incident. 'It's not what this club is about and it's not acceptable behaviour,' Castle said. 'We will look at the vision and take action. 'Even thought we lost it is unacceptable for fans to throw bottles!! We will work to find the culprits!' 9 News  reported that there was a coward punch attack outside the stadium following the incident. Bulldogs fans react towards the match officials at full time  at ANZ Stadium on Friday night in Sydney. As referees, officials and players made their way off the field and towards the tunnel, a section of the crowd started hurling plastic water bottles and abuse at them. A Bulldogs supporter was not impressed after Rabbitohs were awarded a late penalty. The incident comes after Sutton awarded the Rabbitohs a late penalty after Graham was placed on report for the incident that saw Reynolds struggle off the ground on crutches and a knee brace. Bulldogs fans were incensed when the Rabbitohs were awarded a kick right in front of the posts, after a late tackle on Reynolds as he attempted a field goal. Sutton then invoked the NRL rulebook which states that if a player impedes an opponent when attempting a field goal the penalty will be taken from 10 metres out. Graham was furious at the decision and he and fellow prop David Klemmer surrounded Sutton with Klemmer sin-binned for yelling: 'You're off your f******g face,' in the face of the lead official. Bulldogs supporters gesture to George Burgess at the end of their Round 5 NRL match  on Friday night. Police speak to Bulldogs supporters after officials and referees were showered with plastic water bottles. Rabbitohs players gestures towards their fans after victory over the Bulldogs  at ANZ Stadium.
