Tony Pulis is plotting talks with West Bromwich Albion chairman Jeremy Peace once Premier League safety is secured to ensure the club can become a top-ten team again. Pulis said West Brom has 'gone off the rails' in recent seasons and needs fundamental improvements to get back on track. West Brom finished 10th and 8th under Roy Hodgson and Steve Clarke before struggling for survival in a chaotic campaign last season before finishing 17th. West Bromwich Albion manager Tony Pulis (left) shouts instructions from the sideline against Man City. They were in danger of the drop again this year with Alan Irvine in charge, one point and one place above the relegation zone, before Pulis arrived and sparked an upturn in form. Pulis wants to do extensive business in the summer market, with Neil Taylor and Bakary Sako two players on Pulis' shopping list, and discussions with Peace will follow confirmed survival. The Baggies almost got relegated under Alan Irvine (above) last season before Pulis arrived to save the day. 'We will talk about it (summer transfer market) once we have achieved our goals - which is to stay up. We are still points away from that,' said Pulis. 'Once that is achieved we will sit down and talk to the chairman. It is a good football club, everything is in place. 'It has gone a little bit off the rails in the last two or three years. I don't think anyone can argue about that, it is now just about trying to get it back on track.' Wolves winger Bakary Sako (right) is a player that Pulis wants to bring on board during the summer. Pulis, who welcomes Queens Park Rangers to the Hawthorns on Saturday, added: 'We will never look any further than beyond what is directly in front of us and the QPR game is massive; that's what we're focused on. 'But it's a good club and it's a club which I think can be a top 10 club in the Premier League. 'That is the ambition I have and I know the chairman has too. He accepts that it has drifted a bit in the past couple of seasons and we all want to get it going forward again.'
