Gordon Robson, 26, killed grandfather John Potts, 45, with a single punch to the back of the head that was so hard it made an 'audible crack' A thug who was drunk after his grandfather's funeral killed a devoted father with a single punch after he stepped in to break up a fight outside a sports bar. Newcastle Crown Court heard that Gordon Robson, 26, hit father John Potts, 45, in the back of the head so hard there was an 'audible crack' before he fell down dead. Robson, who has a history of violent offending, was jailed for just three and a half years for the attack outside the NE38 Sports Bar in Washington, Tyne and Wear, in November last year. The court was told that Robson had been drinking at the bar after being a pallbearer at his grandfather's funeral before getting into an argument with a friend of Mr Potts. Fighting broke out after the bar closed, and Mr Potts, a father-of-six and grandfather-of-one who was described by his sister as 'a big softie', stepped in to stop it. Prosecutor Nick Dry told the court: 'At this point the defendant punched Mr Potts, who had been trying to calm matters down and was actually facing the other way when the blow was struck. 'The punch made a loud crack, witnesses turned to see him falling to the ground, making no attempt to break his fall.' The court heard despite intervention from the emergency services, Mr Potts could not be saved. Mr Dry added: 'Mr Potts had been minding his own business. He was an innocent bystander who sought only to calm the situation down.' Mr Potts' widow Sarah said  his death had a 'devastating impact' on the family. She said Mr Potts' stepchildren and eight-year-old daughter, Emma, now fear their family won't come back whenever they leave the house. Mr Dry added: 'She said he was a father who never judged her, he was just her dad and hero.' Mr Potts' sisters said in their statements the 'life and soul has been ripped from their family' and described their brother as a 'big softie'. Mr Potts' brother George said he wakes every Sunday at 5.30am, the time he was informed of his siblings death, and feels life has been changed forever. Robson had been drinking at the NE38 Sports Bar in Washington, Tyne and Wear, after his grandfather's funeral when fighting broke out. Mr Potts, described as a 'big softie', was killed when he tried to intervene. Judge Paul Sloan QC jailed Robson, of Waskerley Way, Washington, Tyne and Wear, who admitted manslaughter, to three-and-a-half years behind bars. The judge told Robson: 'Mr Potts was trying to calm the situation. He was acting as a peacemaker. 'It is clear Mr Potts was a devoted father and step-father. It is also clear his death has had a profound effect upon his family. 'No sentence imposed upon you could ever serve to ease the pain of Mr Potts' family. 'I accept you are genuinely remorseful and I accept you will carry the guilt with you for the rest of your life for what you did that night.' Robson accepted he 'misinterpreted' Mr Robson's actions that night, when his already emotional state had been heightened by alcohol, and realises now he should not have hit him. Bob Spragg, defending, said Robson, who has a history of violent offending dating back to when he was just 14, had turned his life around after his last prison sentence. He added that Robson had also found himself a partner who is about to give birth. Mr Spragg said: 'Absolutely no blame attaches to Mr Potts for anything that happened to him. 'Once the defendant has served his sentence he will return to being a law abiding citizen but will have to live with what he has done for the rest of his life.'
