Dick Advocaat will welcome 'controller' Lee Cattermole back to the heart of his Sunderland team as he attempts to launch another late survival bid with a record fifth successive derby victory. The 27-year-old enforcer has missed the last two games through suspension after reaching 10 bookings for the season, and that meant he was unavailable for the Dutchman's first game in charge, a 1-0 defeat at West Ham on March 21. However, Cattermole was the only man told he will definitely start against Newcastle on Sunday during Friday's team meeting, and Advocaat is looking for a big response from a player who has once again missed a significant proportion of the campaign to date through injury. Dick Advocaat will welcome back Lee Cattermole after the midfielder missed the defeat to West Ham United. The Sunderland manager has confirmed that Cattermole will definitely start the game against Newcastle. He said: 'He was the only one I told at the team meeting this morning that he will play, so he knows. 'Definitely they missed him because he did not play for 10 or 11 games. He had 10 weeks out - that's quite a long time. 'He is the controller of the team and a player with experience, so for the team it is good, not only as a player, but also as a person, that he's back in the team.' Cattermole's return could hardly be more timely with Sunderland sitting just a point clear of the Barclays Premier League relegation zone with eight games to play and in desperate need of a repeat of their heroics at the end of last season if they are to avoid another desperate scrap for top-flight survival. Advocaat and coach Paul Bracewell discuss tactics during training ahead of the clash with Newcastle. Cattermole and his team-mates share a joke during training as they prepare to face their fiercest rivals. Former Middlesbrough and Wigan man Cattermole played his part in a remarkable escape 12 months ago, and while he insists the picture has not been as black as has been painted at times, he knows the time for action rather than talking has arrived. Cattermole said: 'We haven't played too badly all season, really. There's been the odd bad performance which has killed us, but we just need to start getting over the line and winning some games. There's not really much else to say on the matter. 'We need to get some confidence. We haven't hit a roll all season, we did at the end of last season. It's always been a draw, a draw, then maybe a win, and we have never got anything going. Cattermole played his part in a remarkable escape from relegation for the Black Cats just 12 months ago. Cattermole has yet again missed large portions of Sunderland's season through injury. 'This is a good time to maybe get something going and finish the season with a bit of a bang.' Cattermole has played in two of Sunderland's four consecutive wins over their neighbours, including the 1-0 victory at St James' Park in December, and an extension of that record would send spirits soaring on Wearside. The Black Cats have never before enjoyed five wins on the trot over the Magpies, but while acknowledging the importance of the fixture, Advocaat - a veteran of the Old Firm derby as well as similar rivalries in Holland and Russia - is refusing to be distracted by the opposition this weekend. He said: 'It's nice, but the past doesn't count anymore. We don't get more points because of the last four games. Will Buckley and some of the Sunderland squad share the ball around during a training session. Sunderland players battle for the ball as the Black Cat prepare of their clash against Newcastle United. Jermain Defoe teases the Sunderland players as he dummies a pass in training at the Academy of Light. 'We all know how important this is, it's a special moment for everybody. But we are focused on the game and that we get the result we need. 'Every game for us is a special match. This, of course, because it's Newcastle is special, but we still need points and we still have only eight games left, so in that way, it's very important that we can show our fans that we really want to win. 'If we can get them behind us, it can be a very important weapon.' While Advocaat has been boosted by Cattermole's return, he will be without central defender Wes Brown, who faces up to a month on the sidelines with a knee injury. Cattermole will return, but defender Wes Brown will miss the clash as he recovers from a knee injury.
