Cesar Azpilicueta is counting down the games until Chelsea win the Barclays Premier League title, and he thinks they have shown their strength by staying top of the table since 'day one'. The Spanish defender and his club team-mates sit top of the table ahead of facing Stoke City at Stamford Bridge on Saturday, six points clear of nearest rivals Manchester City with a game in hand. The Blues have long been considered title favourites and Azpilicueta puts that down to the lightning start they made back in August, winning seven of their first eight games to take up first place early on. Cesar Azpilicueta (centre) is counting down the games until Chelsea win the Barclays Premier League title. Azpilicueta's Chelsea sit top of the table ahead of facing Stoke City at Stamford Bridge on Saturday at 3pm. In fact, Jose Mourinho's men have only briefly relinquished the title lead, on goal difference, since their impressive 3-1 win over Burnley at Turf Moor in their season opener back on August 18. Their form has dipped at points since, most notably in defeats to Newcastle United and Tottenham Hotspur, but Azpilicueta is confident that Chelsea have been able to get through their bad moments unscathed. 'We have been top of the table since day one,' he said. 'We kept that position obviously and had very good moments, as well as some less good moments, but we were there still top of the table and this is the strength of the team. 'You can be up and down, but you have to be focused on the target and I think now we are in a very good position.' Jose Mourinho's men have only briefly relinquished the title lead since their opening 3-1 win over Burnley. Diego Costa scored in the opening weekend win at Turf Moor and has scored 18 more in Chelsea's title bid. Chelsea signed Atletico Madrid left back for £16million in the summer, but he has been largely kept out of the team by Azpilicueta who has consistently played in his less-natural position rather than at right back. Unsurprisingly, the 25-year-old Spaniard - who has had two weeks off after not being selected for his national team - is pleased to have kept his place under new competition within the Chelsea squad this season as they go in search of a league and Capital One Cup double. Filipe Luis (right) arrived for £16million at Chelsea in the summer but has been kept out by Azpilicueta. 'If you ask every player in every team, they are going to say they want to play and when you do not play, obviously you are not as happy as when you do play,' Azpilicueta told Sky Sports. 'I have to go out on the pitch and give everything, to try to fight for every ball, to play and be useful for the team. And obviously when I finish the game and I feel I have given everything and we win, I am happy. 'There are individual battles in the game that you have to win. And after, if we win every one then I think the team will also win.'
