Franck Ribery says he has no chance of playing against Borussia Dortmund this week after failing to recover from injury, and admits he 'can't even run'. The Bayern Munich winger limped off against Shakhtar Donetsk after picking up an injury at the beginning of last month, in a game where Bayern also lost fellow winger Arjen Robben. But Ribery is hopeful he could be back for the German Cup quarter-finals against Bayer Leverkusen in midweek. French ace Franck Ribery celebrates his Champions league goal against Shakhtar Donetsk. Bayern Munich winger Ribery is tackled by Braunschweig's defender Benjamin Kessel. 'At the start of the week it was bad and I could not do anything,' the winger told Goal. Only on Wednesday was I able to ride a bike again. This injury came at a terrible time, I was just getting in form. Now I have had to stop for three weeks. 'The problem was I started to train again after the Shakhtar match too soon; that was a mistake. There are many important matches coming and I hope I can help the team.' 'I have no chance [of playing against Dortmund],' he added. 'I can't even run. I tried last week and was in pain immediately. This situation is difficult, but I have to be at 100 per cent first. This is important, looking at the upcoming challenges.' Ribery celebrates scoring with Bayern Munich boss Pep Guardiola and Belgian defender Daniel van Buyten. Ribery and Karim Benzema during the international friendly match between France and Paraguay. 'The next days will show what the chances are [of playing against Leverkusen]. The important thing is to start running again without pain. Only then am I able to work with more intensity and work with the team again. I need time, but we don't have it. I must be patient. 'We have two big matches ahead of us. Dortmund know how to win against us and the cup match in Leverkusen is even more important. Two good results would be good heading into the Champions League. We need to have confidence and we must not underestimate Porto.'
