A BMW driver with five children on board was today arrested after a talented student was knocked down and killed as she walked to to the library. Hina Shamim, 21,  died close to the University of Kingston in London last night, just weeks before her 22nd birthday. Friends today left flowers at the scene and said Miss Shamim, who had the nickname Hyena and was originally from Peterborough, was 'much-loved and the most charming lovely girl in the world'. Hina Shamim was killed after she was knocked down as she walked a short distance from home to the library. The BMW (left) was severely damaged in the crash, which also involved an empty bus (centre) Last night she was killed and eight others, including five children, were injured in a horror crash involving a bus and a car. Witnesses said that the white BMW M3 sportscar knocked her down before careering head-on into a double decker bus. The vehicle then span sideways and pinned Miss Shamim against a wall. Paramedics battled desperately to save the woman's life but she was pronounced dead at the scene. It has been claimed the car was travelling at around 80mph. Six people who were in the BMW, including five children between the ages of four and 16, were taken to hospital to be treated for injuries which were not thought to be life-threatening. One of the children is believed to have suffered a broken wrist and a four-year-old boy was said to need treatment for a head injury after the youngsters were showered with broken glass following the crash. Dozens of tributes have been left at the scene of the crash in Kingston, where Miss Shamim was killed. The 34-year-old man driver was arrested on suspicion of causing death by dangerous driving and remains in police custody today. He was taken to hospital after the crash, along with his five passengers - two boys aged 16 and 12, two four-year-old boys, and an eight-year-old girl. The driver of the empty 418 bus, involved in the crash, was treated at the scene for minor injuries while an off-duty colleague, 39, who was with him was taken to hospital with leg injuries. Miss Shamim was completing her dissertation for a sports science course, and was due to complete her four years of studies this year. Friends claim she had been on her way to hand in coursework when she died. The talented student was due to celebrate her 22nd birthday next week before she was knocked down. Friends have described 21-year-old Miss Shamim as 'the loveliest person you could ever meet' Miss Shamim (right) was a popular student and was described as always having a smile on her face. Monty Sajdewa, 24, who went to the gym with her, said: 'She was the most charming person you could ever meet. She was beautiful in every way. 'She lit up a room and was so caring and funny. She always had a smile on her face.' A tribute poster left at the crash scene read: 'This dawn she's vanished, but shining in everyone that knew her, like the sun.' Shabaz Shah, 20, a fellow student told the Evening Standard: 'She was the loveliest person you could ever meet. she loved life and was always in the gym or studying. She was the best person and we all loved her.' The talented student is believed to have been making a walk of just 50 metres from her flat to the library when she was knocked down. She was due to graduate next year. The 21-year-old, originally from Peterborough, was due to celebrate her 22nd birthday in just a week. Friends of Miss Shamim have been seen at the scene of the crash today, laying floral tributes. Dozens of people have gathered at the scene and said she was the 'most charming person you could meet' The popular student was due to complete her sports science studies next year and celebrate her birthday. One of Miss Shamim's cousins, who did not want to be named, said: 'In our culture we don't really party so she always just put her head down and got on with her work. She had her whole life mapped out for her. 'She wanted to be a nutritionist and she was so passionate about that. She was always telling us what's good for us and what we shouldn't be eating. 'This isn't something we are going to get over easily. It's going to be in our hearts for a long time.' Hina lived with her parents and two brothers in Peterborough before leaving for university. She came back to visit regularly. London Ambulance Service declared a 'major incident' following the collision at around 9pm on Tuesday night and around 15 ambulances and police cars were called to the scene. The incident took place just 100 yards from the entrance to the university's Penrhyn Road campus. Police have cordoned off part of the road where the BMW is believed to have careered into the student. The incident is believed to have taken place on Tuesday evening as Miss Shamim walked to the library. London Ambulance Service declared a major incident after the fatal crash at about 9pm on Tuesday. Witnesses described hearing a 'loud bang' at the time of the crash. One who saw the aftermath said: 'We just walked out to take the dog for a walk as it had just happened and the police were arriving. 'There was a man who ran off with a small child, and then he came back screaming at the police to help his other child. 'The whole of the car's front end up to the window is in pieces.' A 39-year-old male passenger on the bus, as well as the bus driver, were also treated for minor injuries. Detective Sergeant John Hartfree from the Serious Collision Investigation Unit at the Met Police said: 'Penrhyn Road would have been busy at the time of the collision and I am appealing for anyone who saw this tragic event unfold to contact police. 'I am particularly keen to speak to the occupants of a dark coloured car which was seen following the white BMW M3 car immediately prior to the collision.' The convertible car was seen smashed and sprawled across a pavement and the front garden of a home after the crash last night. The victim's next of kin has been informed while formal identification is under way.
