Sir Nick Faldo will now know for sure whether Rory McIlroy is bulking up too much after appearing to give the world No 1 a squeeze during Monday's practice round at Augusta National. After McIlroy was on the cover of Men's Health magazine and admitted he was 'obsessed with the gym', Faldo, a three-time Masters winner, voiced his concern that the 25-year-old was spending too much time on the weights. Faldo last week told the Daily Telegraph: 'Throwing 200lb and 300lb weights around is not going to be good for your golf swing. The heaviest weight I would ever lift was my body weight. You can play some pretty good golf when you have just got some decent shoulders on you and a strong neck and a strong pair of hands.' Sir Nick Faldo puts a hand on Rory McIlroy's shoulder during Monday's practice round ahead of the Masters. McIlroy and three-time Masters champion Faldo greeted each other with a handshake at Augusta National. McIlroy's fitness programme doesn't seem to be doing him too much harm. He goes into the year's first major as the bookies' favourite and looking to become just the sixth player in history to complete the career grand slam. He shook Faldo's hand on Monday and the Englishman, wearing a green jacket McIlroy would love to have in his collection, gave him a squeeze on the shoulder. As expected, McIlroy drew a huge crowd as patrons piled in to the famous Georgia course and Scottish amateur Bradley Neil had a taste of things to come as he practised with him. The patrons were also keen to get close to McIlroy as Masters week began with the Monday practice. McIlroy, preparing to tee off on the fourth, is bidding to win a fifth major and complete a career grand slam. World No 1 McIlroy made sure he put in a bit of work in the huge bunkers at the Georgia venue. Meanwhile, just 27 per cent of McIlroy's fellow professionals think he will complete the career grand slam by winning the Masters this week. But the good news for the 25-year-old is that he is far more popular than defending champion Bubba Watson, who cannot rely on too much support if he gets into a fight at Augusta National. Those were among the results gleaned by an ESPN.com survey of 103 tour professionals - 21 of whom were major champions - who anonymously answered questions on a wide range of topics. Asked if McIlroy would be wearing a green jacket on Sunday, 28 players said yes, 72 said no and three abstained. McIlroy will have caddie JP Fitzgerald on the bag to help him plot his way round the stunning course. The Northern Irishman had Scottish amateur Bradley Neil for company during Monday's practice. And McIlroy congratulated Neil after he chipped in at the second... save them for Thursday Bradley. Asked which player they would not help in a fight in the car park, Watson got double the number of responses (22.6 per cent) of second-place finisher Patrick Reed (11 per cent). Rory Sabbatini was third and Robert Allenby fourth. Other topics covered in the survey included slow play and recreational drugs - Kevin Na was judged in need of the first one-shot penalty in 20 years on the PGA Tour, narrowly ahead of Ben Crane, while 40 players felt the Tour should stop testing for marijuana. And on the subject of Tiger Woods, only seven per cent thought he would not win another major before the start of the season. However, after Woods missed the cut in Phoenix and withdrew from his next event after 11 holes, the numbers became 50/50. McIlroy walks with Scottish amateur Neil on the 12th fairway during a practice round for the Masters. McIlroy putts on the 12th green as he puts the final touches on his preparations for the upcoming Masters.
