A sign of Raheem Sterling’s tender years can be seen inked into his forearm. The image of Wembley, which overlooked his estate growing up, is clear amid a cluster of tattoos. Rather than those two famous towers, synonymous with the national stadium for 77 years, it is the arc, unveiled in 2007, that is unmistakable. Back then, Sterling was a young kid dreaming of a career in professional football, playing jumpers for goalposts on streets and in parks. Raheem Sterling has turned down a new deal with Liverpool and put off contract talks until the summer. Sterling has revealed that he will wait until the summer before making a decision on his future. The 20-year-old scored for England in their 4-0 win over Lithuania at Wembley last Friday night. Sterling impressed as part of England's front three but he has been used at wing back by Liverpool. Sterling pictured in Liverpool training on Thursday at their Melwood headquarters. Sterling and Daniel Sturridge share a joke in Liverpool training on Thursday at their Melwood base. The forward trains with his team-mates as they prepare to take on Arsenal on Saturday. He is still just 20, but much has changed. Sterling is now in position to reject contract offers of £100,000 per week from Liverpool, confident enough to express his views to the BBC without the knowledge of his club. ‘I don't want to be perceived as a money-grabbing 20-year-old,’ says the player aware of his value as much as his age and how those two factors are linked. He knows, with two years left on his £35,000-per-week deal, he holds the cards in discussions with one of the biggest clubs in English and European football. It has been quite a remarkable rise for Sterling since his days looking up at Wembley with hope in his heart and a ball under his arm; rapidly progressing along the ground and through the ranks. Sterling arrives at Liverpool's Melwood training ground on Thursday morning. Liverpool manager Brendan Rodgers hands out some instructions during Thursday's training session. The Liverpool manager prepares his team to take on Arsenal on Saturday at the Emirates Stadium. Sterling's current £35,000-a-week deal at Liverpool has two years to run at the end of this season. Neil Ashton broke the Sterling contract story on Monday - CLICK HERE TO READ FULL ARTICLE. He was born in Maverley, Kingston, a tough Jamaican community where gun crime is rife and drug gangs rule, before moving across the Atlantic aged five to join his mother Nadine in north London along with three siblings. Living on the St Raphael’s estate meant the sounds of gunshots were never far away. Police labelled the adjoining Stonebridge estate a warzone in 2005. Rival gangs engaged in tit-for-tat shootings. ‘They were all dealing in crack cocaine and it was a fight for territory,’ said Detective Inspector Stephen Horsley in 2009. Sterling had his football and his mother, a source of inspiration and guidance. But he failed to settle in a mainstream primary school because of behavioural problems, finding escape at the Vernon House Special School, which he attended for three years. A decade ago he began to take his sport seriously. The English youngster spent seven years at Queens Park Rangers before moving to Liverpool in 2010. He joined QPR's Centre of Excellence aged 11, and within three years was starring for the Under 18s. He joined Queens Park Rangers’ Centre of Excellence aged 11, and within three years was starring for the Under 18s. Mark Anderson and Frank McParland, Liverpool’s youth scout and academy director respectively, spotted Sterling star in these games and began their pursuit. At this time Sterling was taken under the wing of Tom Walley, a veteran youth coach who has worked with Ashley Cole and David James. Sterling’s pay has rocketed since he left QPR, where he would have been earning around £400 per week. After his move north, his first pro contract at Liverpool was worth £2,000 per week and his current deal earns him £35,000 per week as previously mentioned. Michael Calvin details in his book, The Nowhere Men, how Sterling would take part in pick-up games organised by Walley on a pitch in the back garden of the home of Tim Sherwood, then Tottenham’s technical co-ordinator. NEIL ASHTON: Just after 6pm most weekdays, Christian Nanetti counts his tips and rushes out the door of the new Soho eaterie Estado. Nanetti is a waiter now, blending into the London crowds as he heads for the Tube station to make his way out to Ashford, Kent, to train with his new club Dover Athletic. Four years ago Nanetti was an internet sensation, beating Raheem Sterling in Soccer AM’s iconic Skill Skool challenge in their battle over three rounds at QPR’s Harlington training centre. CLICK HERE to read on... A young Sterling poses for the camera during Soccer AM's Skill Skool in 2010. Sterling's former team-mate Chris Nanetti (left) is now a waiter and plays for Dover Athletic. Sterling (right) performs some tricks as his academy pals and Nanetti (left) look on. Calvin writes that Spurs turned down the chance to sign Sterling for £200,000 because academy coaches were in disagreement over his long-term potential. Fulham were assured of his talent and had Sterling in their building before Liverpool swooped to take him to Merseyside aged 15 for £500,000. Shortly before travelling north, Sterling took part in Soccer Am’s Skill School challenge, facing another promising youngster Christain Nanetti. He is most recently of Dover Athletic, a tale of just how tough it is to make the kind of ascent Sterling has managed. He is close to completing his third full season as a Liverpool first-teamer having become the club’s second-youngest debutant aged 17 years and 107 days. Sterling has made 120 appearances for Liverpool since his debut in a 2-1 defeat by Wigan in 2012. Sterling signs his £35,000-per-week contract with Ian Ayre (left) and Brendan Rodgers in 2012. Rodgers points in the direction of Sterling during following a pre-season training session in 2012. Both youthful and experienced, Sterling won the first of 14 England caps in November 2012. That call-up came three months after Brendan Rodgers admonished his player for uttering the word ‘steady’ during a pre-season training debrief. ‘You say steady to me again when I say something to you, you’ll be on the first plane back,’ said a pointing Rodgers in remarkably candid footage captured for Fox documentary Being: Liverpool. Sterling found himself in trouble with the law in August 2013, arrested on suspicion of assaulting girlfriend Shana Halliday. The Reds boss was angered by a comment from Sterling which the young forward denied. Rodgers warned the young players they must improve their attitudes during the exchange with Sterling. Sterling in action for the England Under 21s during an international friendly against Scotland in August, 2013. Sterling maintained his innocence and the following month the case collapsed at Liverpool Magistrates' Court. A previous charge of common assault was dropped in May when a witness failed to show. Another of Sterling’s tattoos is the face and name of his daughter, Melody Rose, born in 2012 following a brief relationship. There were rumours Sterling had fathered more children by different mothers. This time last year he referred to those suggestions as ‘silly’, confirming he only has one child. The youngster embraces Rodgers after scoring for Liverpool in a 3-2 victory against Norwich in 2014. The 20-year-old flew to Jamaica in January after being giving a mid-season break by Liverpool. This latest interview with the BBC was another attempt to set records straight. It did that, but perhaps not in the manner intended. No lines were drawn under his current contract talks, those stories will rumble on. Rather, his words illustrated a player fully comprehending his situation at Liverpool and in the market place. It has been a quick climb. Rodgers must convince Sterling to sign a deal that could be one of the biggest in club's history. Sterling scored a brilliant solo goal during Liverpool's 1-1 Capital One Cup semi-final draw with Chelsea. The Liverpool forward has now played 14 times for Roy Hodgson's England side.
