For Ronny Deila, qualification for the Champions League is not all about the money. But there are now 16million reasons for the Norwegian to take Celtic there by leading the team to a fourth successive title. And all of them involve pound signs. This week UEFA confirmed their ‘cash cycle’ for the next three years of European competition. The last time Celtic reached the Champions League group stage, in 2013-14 when they faced AC Milan, Ajax and Barcelona, they won one match and earned £12.6m. The same performance – or better – next season would see that sum rise by £4m. If they reach the last 16, the figures crash through the £20m barrier. And that’s even before ticket sales. UEFA's increase in Champions League money gives Celtic manager Ronny Deila extra reasons to qualify. To the rest of Scottish football, the prospect of Celtic making more money is damaging to any hopes of increased competition. To Deila, it’s a different kind of bind. ‘It is even more pressure,’ conceded the Norwegian as his side seek to stretch their Premiership lead to eight points against St Mirren in Paisley tonight. ‘But you can’t think about money. You just have to do the job the best way you can. ‘I feel if we can keep consistency in this team and maybe add a player or two, we will be ready for it. ‘It’s not only about the money. It’s about the supporters and the reputation of the club. It’s about the experience of the Champions League.’ The experience and the cash effectively go hand in hand. If Celtic participate in the group stages of the premier competition, sell-out crowds of 60,000 – something of a rarity these days – are guaranteed. The competition stimulates and sustains the club in a variety of ways. Yes, the last 32 of the Europa League secured a tie with Inter Milan this season. But for all the concerns about a small elite from the major leagues dominating the competition every year, the Champions League remains the superior competition in every way. ‘The Champions League is so important,’ added Deila yesterday. ‘We want to win the league and get into the Champions League group stage, that’s the main target. ‘There is even more money now in the Champions League. So to get a good team to compete in that tournament is everything. It is more important than selling players. ‘Our prime target is the Champions League and we have to do what is best for the club.’ Towards that end, Deila - now a more confident and assured figure than the man who took the Parkhead job last summer - will assume personal control of the pre-season programme and argue for the retention of key players. The days of Celtic jetting to the east coast of Australia and back to play friendlies appear to have gone. ‘We have to be more prepared than we were this season,’ stated the Parkhead boss after insisting that last summer’s lucrative series of games in the United States, Austria and Germany had been partly to blame for his team’s subsequent 4-1 qualifying defeat to Legia Warsaw in Poland. ‘I know we are going to be more prepared. They are knockout ties in the qualifiers, so anything can happen. ‘We just need to do everything as good as possible so that the preparation is 100 per cent. ‘We have to do what is best for the team. If we don’t reach it (the group stages) then we will have done everything we can. If we are not good enough then we have to look for a new coach then.’ He was only half joking, you suspect. The most important games of a Celtic season now take place in mid-July, before they have kicked a ball in domestic competition. The Champions League qualifiers set the tone for the rest of the campaign. Amid those circumstances, finding the time to rest international players is proving increasingly difficult. Scotland play the Republic of Ireland in a vital European qualifier in Dublin on June 13, when more than a few Celtic stars are likely to be involved, while the likes of full-back Emilio Izaguirre will also be playing for their countries through the summer. By this time last year, Celtic had won the Scottish title at a canter - allowing former manager Neil Lennon to grant key players early rest prior to the Euro challenge ahead. Deila says that won’t happen this time, even if his side can find a way to shake off challengers Aberdeen in the coming weeks. ‘No. Everybody is going to be here,’ said the Norwegian boss. ‘Hopefully we are going to win the Treble and that is the main target. ‘Our dream and hope is to get to the Scottish Cup Final and win it. If we do that, then we will be playing our last game of this season on May 30. ‘After the cup final, the players will get three weeks’ holiday. If they are playing internationals in June, then they will get one week more. So players like Broony (Scott Brown) and Stefan (Johansen) would come back on July 1. ‘In three weeks, you can’t ruin too much. It is just positive for their bodies to rest. They know what is coming when they come back to training.’ Before then, there are big barriers to cross. Beginning tonight just down the road in Paisley against a demoralised and struggling St Mirren side who find themselves propping up the Premiership table. Deila admits he is eager to secure a fourth consecutive league title for Celtic as soon as possible. ‘We want to win the league as soon as possible,’ declared Deila. ‘The games coming up now are important games but we have a good momentum now. We play good football, we train well, there is good harmony in the squad. I am comfortable that we are going to keep performing well. ‘I expect a good performance at St Mirren. We have a lot of players who have been rested a lot. They should be ready for the game.’
