{"question": "how to plant a potato that has sprouted", "passages": "passage 1:1. Cut large, sprouted potatoes into chunks with two or three eyes each, using a sharp knife, being careful to not break the long sprouts. Place the potato chunks on a tray or cookie sheet, and set them in a cool, dark location overnight so the cut ends can dry out. Small potatoes can be planted whole.ater the potatoes thoroughly. Continue watering regularly when the soil is dry to the touch. Add a 4-inch layer of mulch around the plants, pulling it back at least 4 inches from the sprouting potato vines. Mulch keeps the soil cool while maintaining a consistent moisture level.\n\npassage 2:Overview. Sometimes, even with the best intentions, seed potatoes begin to sprout because you haven't been able to get them in the ground.This can be due to weather conditions or simply because you haven't readied the garden space in time.Seed potatoes go through three stages: young seed, middle aged and old.verview. Sometimes, even with the best intentions, seed potatoes begin to sprout because you haven't been able to get them in the ground.\n\npassage 3:Instructions. Turn the soil over in your planned planting area with a hoe or tiller to a depth of 12 inches and break the dirt up finely. Remove any large rocks and other debris while hoeing. Dig a trench about 4 inches wide and 6 to 8 inches deep.If you're going to plant more than one row, space them apart by about 24 to 36 inches.Cut your potatoes into cubes, about 1 to 2 inches on each side, leaving a sprout on each cube. Nonsprouted sections should have two or three eyes on each.Place the cubes into the bottom of the trench, separating each cube from the other by about 6 to 8 inches. Place the sprouted or eye side of the cubes facing up.Cover the potatoes with a layer of compost and then replace the dirt on top of the plantings.nstructions. Turn the soil over in your planned planting area with a hoe or tiller to a depth of 12 inches and break the dirt up finely. Remove any large rocks and other debris while hoeing. Dig a trench about 4 inches wide and 6 to 8 inches deep.\n\n"}