{"question": "how to make a paper crown origami", "passages": "passage 1:Origami Crown Step 2: Flip paper over. Origami Crown Step 3: Fold both right and left sides to meet the center crease. Origami Crown Step 4: Now fold both the right and left sides on the dotted line shown below. Origami Crown Step 5: Flip paper over and repeat step 4.Origami Crown Step 6: Fold the bottom tip up on the dotted line as shown. Origami Crown Step 7: Flip paper over. Repeat Step 6. Origami Crown Step 8: Now we're going to open up the paper and transform it into an origami crown! Pry open the paper from the bottom.Origami Crown Step 9: Flatten the middle from the top and shape your origami crown to your liking!rigami Crown Step 3: Fold both right and left sides to meet the center crease. Origami Crown Step 4: Now fold both the right and left sides on the dotted line shown below. Origami Crown Step 5: Flip paper over and repeat step 4.\n\npassage 2:Try using a large piece of paper for the origami crown, or even newspaper! Kids love this one, its easy once you know how, and everyone loves to feel like royalty!For a printable .pdf version of the crown instructions, click here. You will need Adobe Reader installed on your computer in order to open the .pdf file.You can get Adobe Reader here. 1. Start with your paper white side up.Fold in half, and open, then fold in half once again, in the other direction. 2.or a printable .pdf version of the crown instructions, click here. You will need Adobe Reader installed on your computer in order to open the .pdf file. You can get Adobe Reader here.\n\npassage 3:1 The helmet base form can also be used to create a napkin origami hat for a formal table setting. 2  Fold the bottom point of the helmet base 2/3 of the way to the top. 3  Then, fold this point back onto itself so it is touching the bottom horizontal crease of the napkin. Fold the bottom point of the helmet base 2/3 of the way to the top. 2  Then, fold this point back onto itself so it is touching the bottom horizontal crease of the napkin. 3  If desired, go over these creases with a travel iron to create a crisp look for your folded napkin. 4  Flip the napkin over. 5  Bring the corners together.\n\n"}