{"question": "how to brush your teeth properly youtube", "passages": "passage 1:Most adults do not come close to brushing that long. To get a feel for the time involved, try using a stopwatch. To properly brush your teeth, use short, gentle strokes, paying extra attention to the gumline, hard-to-reach back teeth, and areas around fillings, crowns or other restoration.Concentrate on thoroughly cleaning each section as follows:1  Clean the outer surfaces of your upper teeth, then your lower teeth.o properly brush your teeth, use short, gentle strokes, paying extra attention to the gumline, hard-to-reach back teeth, and areas around fillings, crowns or other restoration. Concentrate on thoroughly cleaning each section as follows: 1  Clean the outer surfaces of your upper teeth, then your lower teeth.\n\npassage 2:You have to be able to spit to use fluoride! Once you have the toothpaste on your toothbrush...open your mouth wide! Start with the teeth in the back of your mouth and brush in little circles. Work your way to the teeth in the front of your mouth and don't forget to brush the gums!Move the brush back and forth gently in short strokes.Brush the top, front, and back sides of each tooth. Make sure you get the inside of all the teeth.uide the floss between your teeth using a gentle rubbing motion. Never snap the floss into your gums. When the floss reaches the gum line, curve it into a C shape against one tooth. Hold the floss tightly against the tooth. Gently rub the side of the tooth, moving the floss away from the gum with an upward motion.\n\npassage 3:1 Place your toothbrush at a 45-degree angle to the gums. 2  Gently move the brush back and forth in short (tooth-wide) strokes. 3  Brush the outer surfaces, the inner surfaces, and the chewing surfaces of the teeth.ou should also make sure to: 1  Clean between teeth daily with floss. 2  Tooth decay-causing bacteria still linger between teeth where toothbrush bristles can\u2019t reach. 3  This helps remove plaque and food particles from between the teeth and under the gum line. 4  Eat a balanced diet and limit between-meal snacks.\n\n"}