{"question": "how to change cabin air filter in a 2008 nissian path finder", "passages": "passage 1:In dusty areas change the cabin air filter more often. 1  Open the glove compartment. 2  Press in on the sides of the glove compartment and allow the glove compartment to hand by the cord. 3  Depress the cabin air filter cover tab, then remove the cover, Fig.4  Remove the cabin air filter elements from the heater and ...n dusty areas change the cabin air filter more often. 1  Open the glove compartment. 2  Press in on the sides of the glove compartment and allow the glove compartment to hand by the cord. 3  Depress the cabin air filter cover tab, then remove the cover, Fig.\n\npassage 2:1 Press in on the sides of the glove compartment and allow the glove compartment to hand by the cord. 2  Depress the cabin air filter cover tab, then remove the cover, Fig. . 3  Remove the cabin air filter elements from the heater and ...n dusty areas change the cabin air filter more often. 1  Open the glove compartment. 2  Press in on the sides of the glove compartment and allow the glove compartment to hand by the cord. 3  Depress the cabin air filter cover tab, then remove the cover, Fig.\n\npassage 3:Lift the hood of the Nissan. Locate the air filter housing unit at the front corner on the driver's side of the car. Loosen the screws on the lid of the housing unit with a screwdriver. Lift the lid off of the unit. Remove the old filter from the housing unit by pulling it out.Clean any remaining debris out of the air filter unit. Wipe both the interior and exterior down with a damp cloth. Place the new air filter in the housing unit. Use a K&N air filter, part number 33-2286, for a Pathfinder manufactured from 2004 to 2008.Locate older Nissan air filter part numbers online or at your local auto part store. Replace the lid on the filter housing unit.Tighten the screws with the screwdriver.ow to Replace an Air Filter in a Nissan Pathfinder. A clean filter allows air to move freely into the engine, which... 1  How to Replace Nissan Armada Cabin Filter.\n\n"}