{"question": "how to get free voip service and phone number", "passages": "passage 1:3. Free DID (incoming numbers) from around the world. Now that you have found a free or paid VoIP service, you would like others to be able to phone you from a PSTN or mobile phone. There are a number of companies offering DID or imcoming numbers (VoIP-In) for a flat yearly rate or a monthly fee.. Free DID (incoming numbers) from around the world. Now that you have found a free or paid VoIP service, you would like others to be able to phone you from a PSTN or mobile phone. There are a number of companies offering DID or imcoming numbers (VoIP-In) for a flat yearly rate or a monthly fee.\n\npassage 2:Visit my youtube channel at http://www.youtube.com/user/ricsil2037. This video will show you how you can get a free Virtual Phone Number (VOIP). A voip number is a phone number that uses the internet to place and receive calls.Get your free number today from a respected company named Google.isit my youtube channel at http://www.youtube.com/user/ricsil2037. This video will show you how you can get a free Virtual Phone Number (VOIP). A voip number is a phone number that uses the internet to place and receive calls. Get your free number today from a respected company named Google.\n\npassage 3:Cloud VoIP Service. With our Cloud VoIP service, you can get VoIP service completely in the cloud with no equipment required on your end. We offer toll-free numbers and US local numbers that can be forwarded to any US number (like a cell phone) or used with a SIP device.Once you have a number, you'll also be able to use SIP devices to make outgoing calls to US numbers with your cloud account.NEW: Lower pricing announced.e offer toll-free numbers and US local numbers that can be forwarded to any US number (like a cell phone) or used with a SIP device. Once you have a number, you'll also be able to use SIP devices to make outgoing calls to US numbers with your cloud account. NEW: Lower pricing announced.\n\n"}