{"question": "how to set up an email account on verizon", "passages": "passage 1:1 In the Add New Account dialog box, to configure the new email account automatically, configure the following settings in the Email Account section under Auto Account Setup 2  : In the Your Name box, type your full name. 3  In the Email Address box, type your e-mail address. In the Password box, type the password that your ISP provided. 2  In the Retype Password box, retype the password, and then click Next to begin the Auto Account Setup process. 3  Outlook will then try to automatically configure your account. 4  Some ISPs require the full email address to be entered into the User Name field.\n\npassage 2:Open the Change/View menu. Double-click on the email account in order to access the settings screen. Check the My Server Requires Authentication box. Click through the Settings pop-up box into the Log On Using field and enter your Verizon email account name and password, as prompted.Click on the box marked OK..ouble-click on the option leading to your email account. (On most versions of Outlook Express, there will be a My Accounts tab, or a similarly-named option in the Mail menu.) Locate and click on the Servers tab. Find the box labelled SMTP.. Here, you will enter the name of the outgoing server Verizon uses.\n\npassage 3:Click on Mail to begin the setup of your Verizon email account. Double-click on the option leading to your email account. (On most versions of Outlook Express, there will be a My Accounts tab, or a similarly-named option in the Mail menu.) Locate and click on the Servers tab. Find the box labelled SMTP..Here, you will enter the name of the outgoing server Verizon uses.ouble-click on the option leading to your email account. (On most versions of Outlook Express, there will be a My Accounts tab, or a similarly-named option in the Mail menu.) Locate and click on the Servers tab. Find the box labelled SMTP.. Here, you will enter the name of the outgoing server Verizon uses.\n\n"}