{"question": "how to loosen rusted nut", "passages": "passage 1:Step 1 Brush off Loosen as much rust as possible off the nut with a wire brush. Step 2 Tap Tap the sides of the nut with a hammer to help the rust separate and fall off. Step 3 Apply heat Apply heat to the side of the nut for about a minute.Quick Tip:A small, narrowly directed propane torch\u2014one made especially for small jobs\u2014will work best for this job, but be careful. Step 4 Spray lubricant When the bolt is cool enough to touch, spray WD-40 on and around the nut and bolt.Step 5 Tap Tap the end of the bolt with a hammer to loosen the threads and allow the oil to penetrate. Step 6 Loosen Wait another minute or so for the oil to work, and then use your wrench to loosen.tep 3 Apply heat Apply heat to the side of the nut for about a minute. Quick Tip: A small, narrowly directed propane torch\u2014one made especially for small jobs\u2014will work best for this job, but be careful. Step 4 Spray lubricant When the bolt is cool enough to touch, spray WD-40 on and around the nut and bolt.\n\npassage 2:Figure D. If the head of the bolt is buried in your work piece, use a hacksaw to cut a groove in the top of the bolt. Stick the end of a screwdriver into the groove to hold the bolt steady while you loosen the nut.se two hammers to loosen nut. Figure B. Hold a hammer against one side of the nut, and hit the other side with a second hammer. That might loosen the nut so that a wrench can remove it.\n\npassage 3:3. Heat the nut with a heat gun if it won't come off. This causes the steel to expand, which can break the rust seal. Apply heat for about a minute, then allow the nut to cool. If the nut is near plastic components or other things that heat damages, omit this step.. Squirt a penetrating oil onto the top and bottom of the nut. Apply the oil liberally to saturate the threads and the rust as much as possible. Tap the flat top of the nut several times with a hammer to help distribute the oil and break the rust seal.\n\n"}