{"question": "how to change image to transparent background online", "passages": "passage 1:Adding transparency has never been this easy. To make part a of an image transparent, select the option box below Select Transparent Area: (1). Now you can click inside your image(2). The colour that you clicked on, will turn transparent (3). New at the online image editor is to draw transparent lines on your image.This can be handy if you want to remove 'tags' from images which some websites automatically add. To draw a transparent line, click on the option Draw transparent line (4).To remove transparency from an image, click on the option Remove Transparency. Here you can select a colour that you want the transparency be replaced with(7).To remove the background from an animated gif is as simple with the online image editor.he colour that you clicked on, will turn transparent (3). New at the online image editor is to draw transparent lines on your image. This can be handy if you want to remove 'tags' from images which some websites automatically add. To draw a transparent line, click on the option Draw transparent line (4).\n\npassage 2:Click the picture that you want to create transparent areas in. Under Picture Tools, on the Format tab, in the Adjust group, click Color. Adjust group on the Format tab under Picture Tools. If you don't see the Format or Picture Tools tabs, make sure that you've selected a picture.lick the picture that you want to recolor. Under Picture Tools, on the Format tab, in the Adjust group, click Color. Adjust group on the Format tab under Picture Tools. If you don't see the Format or Picture Tools tabs, make sure that you've selected a picture.\n\npassage 3:To make a color transparent in a graphic. In your web page, do one of the following. To edit a picture in your page, click the picture. To edit the background picture of the page, you do not need to make a selection. On the Pictures toolbar, click the Set Transparent Color button.On the picture, click the color that you want to make transparent.To save the edited picture, on the File menu, click Save to save the page. In the Save Embedded Files dialog box, set the options you want and then click OK. For more information, see Save an embedded picture.o edit the background picture of the page, you do not need to make a selection. On the Pictures toolbar, click the Set Transparent Color button. On the picture, click the color that you want to make transparent. To save the edited picture, on the File menu, click Save to save the page.\n\n"}