{"question": "what do the colors of the tennessee flag mean", "passages": "passage 1:The Tennessee Flag has a field of crimson red and a blue circle in its center bordered in white.Within the circle there are 3 white stars, each provided with 5 points. There is a narrow vertical stripe of blue on the flag's left side and another thin white line on the inner side.According to the designer of the Tennessee Flag, each symbol had a notable meaning. Firstly the colors on the flag are extremely significant. White, red and blue are the national colors of the US.White is a symbol of purity, blue stands for the patriotism of the people of Tennessee and red stands for the readiness of the people to shed blood during warfare. The 3 white stars symbolize the 3 disparate forms of land that divide the state.here is a narrow vertical stripe of blue on the flag's left side and another thin white line on the inner side. According to the designer of the Tennessee Flag, each symbol had a notable meaning. Firstly the colors on the flag are extremely significant.\n\npassage 2:The flag was designed by Colonel LeRoy Reeves of the Tennessee National Guard, a Johnson City attorney who was serving in the Tennessee National Guard in 1905 when he created the new flag design. The Tennessee State Legislature officially adopted the flag on April 17, 1905.In a 2001 poll conducted by the North American Vexillological Association, the flag of Tennessee was ranked 14th in a list of 72 flags of North America, including all the state and provincial flags of the United States and Canada.he Tennessee State Legislature officially adopted the flag on April 17, 1905. In a 2001 poll conducted by the North American Vexillological Association, the flag of Tennessee was ranked 14th in a list of 72 flags of North America, including all the state and provincial flags of the United States and Canada.\n\npassage 3:The white stars on a field of blue represent the three additional stars on the American Flag as Tennessee was the 16th state admitted to the union. They also represent the thr \u2026 ee Grand Divisions of Tennessee-East, Middle and West.hey are bound together by the endless circle of the blue field, the symbol being three bound together in one-an indissoluble trinity. The large field is crimson. The final blue bar relieves the sameness of the crimson field and prevents the flag from showing too much crimson when hanging limp.\n\n"}