{"question": "how to lock copy paste in excel", "passages": "passage 1:Type a password if prompted, and click OK. Click the Select All button to select the entire worksheet you want to protect. Press Ctrl+Shift+F. On the Protection tab, uncheck the Locked box, and click OK. On the worksheet, select the cells you want to lock.Press Ctrl+Shift+F again. On the Protection tab, check the Locked box, and click OK. To protect the sheet, click Review Protect Sheet. Enter a password if you want to prevent other people from unprotecting the sheet, repeat that password, and click OK.You should be able to paste the cell contents you copy in any unlocked cell on your worksheet.ype a password if prompted, and click OK. Click the Select All button to select the entire worksheet you want to protect. Press Ctrl+Shift+F. On the Protection tab, uncheck the Locked box, and click OK. On the worksheet, select the cells you want to lock.\n\npassage 2:This is a discussion on Protect worksheet-deactivate 'save as, cut/copy/paste option within the Excel Questions forums, part of the Question Forums category; I have protected excel worksheet with only few columns unprotected, which users are supposed to complete, save and return.e: Protect worksheet-deactivate 'save as, cut/copy/paste op. Regarding save as... Try this - - place the following procedure in your workbook module. Find the little Excel workbook icon near the upper left corner of the window, just to the left of the File menu option.\n\npassage 3:Select the cell that contains the formula that you want to copy. On the Home tab, in the Clipboard group, click Copy. Do one of the following: To paste the formula and any formatting, on the Home tab, in the Clipboard group, click Paste.To paste the formula only, on the Home tab, in the Clipboard group, click Paste, click Paste Special, and then click Formulas. Note You can paste only the formula results.o paste the formula and any formatting, on the Home tab, in the Clipboard group, click Paste. To paste the formula only, on the Home tab, in the Clipboard group, click Paste, click Paste Special, and then click Formulas. Note You can paste only the formula results.\n\n"}