{"question": "how to connect the xbox 360 controller to pc receiver", "passages": "passage 1:Preparing the Controller for Installation. The next step in connecting a wireless Xbox 360 controller to a PC is downloading the driver required for the installation. This software is also on the CD supplied with the wireless Xbox 360 gaming receiver. To install it, simply insert the CD into the PC's optical drive.t is the only button on the receiver. Press and hold this button until it starts flashing green too. Then, press the Connect button at the back of the Xbox 360 controller. It is a small button nested close to the left shoulder button.\n\npassage 2:Use the installation CD that came with your Xbox 360 Controller for Windows before you connect the controller to your computer: 1  Insert the installation disc in the CD or DVD drive on your computer. 2  If the setup program doesn\u2019t automatically start, browse to your CD or DVD drive and run the setup program.o test your Xbox 360 wired controller on your computer, follow these steps: 1  On your computer, click Start, type Run, type joy.cpl, and then press ENTER. 2  Select Xbox 360 Controller, and then click Properties.\n\npassage 3:Follow these steps to connect an Xbox 360 Wireless Controller to your personal computer: To connect the controller to a computer that is running Windows XP SP2 or a later version of Windows, follow these steps: 1. Press and hold the Xbox Guide button until the controller turns on.The Xbox Guide button is the round button with the green X near the center of the controller. 2. Make sure that the Xbox 360 Wireless Gaming Receiver for Windows is plugged in to your computer.3.On the Xbox 360 Wireless Gaming Receiver for Windows, press and release the small round Connect button. 4.On the controller, press and release the Connect button. The Connect button is the small button on the front edge of the controller, between the left bumper button and the charging port. 5.ollow these steps to connect an Xbox 360 Wireless Controller to your personal computer: To connect the controller to a computer that is running Windows XP SP2 or a later version of Windows, follow these steps: 1. Press and hold the Xbox Guide button until the controller turns on.\n\n"}