{"question": "how to fry chicken in the oven", "passages": "passage 1:Preheat the oven to 425\u00b0 F (220\u00b0 C/Gas 7). In a pie pan or a wide, shallow bowl combine flour, paprika, salt and pepper. Put the chicken in the flour mixture, turning to coat thoroughly. Or combine the flour and seasonings in a paper bag or plastic food storage bag.Add chicken pieces a few at a time; shake gently to coat. Put butter in a shallow baking pan; place it in the preheated oven.When the butter has melted, arrange chicken in the baking pan in a single layer, skin side down. Bake for 30 minutes; turn and bake 15 minutes longer, or until chicken is tender and done.r combine the flour and seasonings in a paper bag or plastic food storage bag. Add chicken pieces a few at a time; shake gently to coat. Put butter in a shallow baking pan; place it in the preheated oven. When the butter has melted, arrange chicken in the baking pan in a single layer, skin side down.\n\npassage 2:1 Pour the oil into a 9x13 inch baking dish. 2  Add the chicken to the dish and sprinkle with paprika to taste. 3  Bake in the preheated oven for 30 minutes, then turn pieces over and bake for another 30 minutes.4  Remove from oven and drain on paper towels. Pour the oil into a 9x13 inch baking dish. 2  Add the chicken to the dish and sprinkle with paprika to taste. 3  Bake in the preheated oven for 30 minutes, then turn pieces over and bake for another 30 minutes.\n\npassage 3:1 Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). 2  Place chicken in a roasting pan, and season generously inside and out with salt and pepper. 3  Sprinkle inside and out with onion powder. 4  Place 3 tablespoons margarine in the chicken cavity.5  Arrange dollops of the remaining margarine around the chicken's exterior.ook. Ready In. 1  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). 2  Place chicken in a roasting pan, and season generously inside and out with salt and pepper. 3  Sprinkle inside and out with onion powder. 4  Place 3 tablespoons margarine in the chicken cavity.\n\n"}