{"question": "how to get brown stains out of toilet", "passages": "passage 1:To clean stubborn stains from your toilet bowl, first if you have a wet/dry vacuum, suck out all the water so you have a virtually liquid free bowl. Then, pour in hydrogen peroxide. It will get rid of all stains and lime.I would suggest using 1/2 a bottle for each cleaning.You might need more or less.ou can also try lemon juice which is citric acid. For stains at the bottom of the bowl, empty all the water out of the toilet and pour in straight vinegar high enough to cover the stain. Then just let it sit until gone.\n\npassage 2:Removing hard water stains from the toilet is possible with the right product or combination of products, and better yet, it's also possible to avoid having the stains build up as quickly and as thickly.We won't go soft on hard water stains.Launch Video TLC Family Guide: Public Restrooms. Launch Video.emoving hard water stains from the toilet is possible with the right product or combination of products, and better yet, it's also possible to avoid having the stains build up as quickly and as thickly. We won't go soft on hard water stains. Launch Video TLC Family Guide: Public Restrooms. Launch Video.\n\npassage 3:Instructions. Pour 12 oz. of cola into the stained toilet bowl and swish it around the inside of the toilet with a toilet brush. Leave the cola in the toilet bowl water for one hour to wear off mineral stains.Flush the toilet to wash away the cola and loosened brown rings and stains.Scrub the sides to remove any mineral deposits loosened by the cola. Add 1 cup of white vinegar to the toilet bowl water to dissolve the rest of the stains. Sprinkle baking soda over the toilet brush to add a mild abrasive.Scrub the toilet bowl surface with the baking-soda-covered brush to remove the rest of the stains.lush the toilet to wash away the cola and loosened brown rings and stains. Scrub the sides to remove any mineral deposits loosened by the cola. Add 1 cup of white vinegar to the toilet bowl water to dissolve the rest of the stains.\n\n"}