{"question": "how can i copy my photo from laptop to cd", "passages": "passage 1:2. Open My Computer. 3. Click the files or folders you want to copy to the CD. To select more than one file, hold down the CTRL key while you click the files you want. Then, under File and Folder Tasks, click Copy this file, Copy this folder, or Copy the selected items.If the files are located in My Pictures, under Picture Tasks, click Copy to CD or Copy all items to CD, and then skip to step 5.4. In the Copy Items dialog box, click the CD recording drive, and then click Copy. 5. In My Computer, double-click the CD recording drive.Windows displays a temporary area where the files are held before they are copied to the CD.o select more than one file, hold down the CTRL key while you click the files you want. Then, under File and Folder Tasks, click Copy this file, Copy this folder, or Copy the selected items. If the files are located in My Pictures, under Picture Tasks, click Copy to CD or Copy all items to CD, and then skip to step 5.\n\npassage 2:\u00b7 Type the name you wish to call your new folder. HOW TO COPY PICTURE (FILE) FROM LOCATION TO ANOTHER. \u00b7 Insert your CD into your CD drive (your new laptop). \u00b7 Go to My Computer double click on your CD drive icon to open it (a windows should come up listing the content of your CD).\u00b7 On your keyboard, press these buttons \u201cCtrl or Control\u201d and the letter \u201cA\u201d at the same (this will select all your pictures on your CD).O. I have copied 100 photos from my desktop (XP) to a CD and want to download or copy them to my new laptop (Vista). I have inserted disc and clicked on computer and clicked on E drive and I can see the photos but I can't find a way to get them loaded onto my laptop.\n\npassage 3:DO. I have copied 100 photos from my desktop (XP) to a CD and want to download or copy them to my new laptop (Vista). I have inserted disc and clicked on computer and clicked on E drive and I can see the photos but I can't find a way to get them loaded onto my laptop.O. I have copied 100 photos from my desktop (XP) to a CD and want to download or copy them to my new laptop (Vista). I have inserted disc and clicked on computer and clicked on E drive and I can see the photos but I can't find a way to get them loaded onto my laptop.\n\n"}