{"question": "how to cook a canned ham", "passages": "passage 1:Directions. 1  Drain pineapple, reserving 2 tablespoons juice; set aside. 2  Place ham in a baking dish. 3  Bake at 350\u00b0 for 30 minutes. 4  In a small bowl, combine the brown sugar, mustard, cloves, vinegar and reserved pineapple juice. 5  Score top of ham.6  Place pineapple slices and cherries over ham; spoon glaze over top. Drain pineapple, reserving 2 tablespoons juice; set aside. 2  Place ham in a baking dish. 3  Bake at 350\u00b0 for 30 minutes. 4  In a small bowl, combine the brown sugar, mustard, cloves, vinegar and reserved pineapple juice.\n\npassage 2:Tips & Warnings. 1  You can also rub some brown sugar directly on the top and sides of the ham for a sweeter ham. 2  If you decide to cook your ham directly in the can it came in, make sure you poke some holes in the top. 3  Otherwise the steam will not be able to vent and it will scold you when you open it up.ips & Warnings. 1  You can also rub some brown sugar directly on the top and sides of the ham for a sweeter ham. 2  If you decide to cook your ham directly in the can it came in, make sure you poke some holes in the top. 3  Otherwise the steam will not be able to vent and it will scold you when you open it up.\n\npassage 3:Take the canned ham out and place it in a medium sized roasting pan. Pour some apricot juice in the roasting pan. Have it fill up about 1/2 of an inch high. Open a can of sliced pineapples and lay them over the top of the ham.They can overlap each other. Cover the roasting pan with tin foil.Place the roasting pan in the oven for one hour at 350 degrees. You will know the ham is ready when the pineapples begin to darken in color. Remember that the ham is already cooked, you are just heating it up. It should take about 20 minutes per pound to become fully heated.ips & Warnings. 1  You can also rub some brown sugar directly on the top and sides of the ham for a sweeter ham. 2  If you decide to cook your ham directly in the can it came in, make sure you poke some holes in the top. 3  Otherwise the steam will not be able to vent and it will scold you when you open it up.\n\n"}