{"question": "how to cook eggs without sticking", "passages": "passage 1:Matt. 61 1 1. add a comment |. up vote 4 down vote. Start with medium heat and get the pan hot but put a tablespoon of butter before it gets too hot. Once the foaming stops, add the eggs into the pan and stir constantly but reduce the heat to low. I add about a tablespoon of milk to my eggs.If it starts sticking to the bottom while you're stirring, then the pan has gotten too hot. Just move it off the burner and continue stirring. share | improve this answer.att. 61 1 1. add a comment |. up vote 4 down vote. Start with medium heat and get the pan hot but put a tablespoon of butter before it gets too hot. Once the foaming stops, add the eggs into the pan and stir constantly but reduce the heat to low. I add about a tablespoon of milk to my eggs.\n\npassage 2:Coat the bottom of a frying pan or skillet with nonstick cooking spray. If you do not have nonstick cooking spray, you may substitute butter. Cut a chunk of butter and hold it in your hand as you rub it into the bottom of the pan. Leave the remainder of the butter in the pan. Place the pan over medium heat.ou may need to tilt the pan to cover the whole surface with butter. Prepare the eggs. If you are scrambling the eggs, crack the eggs into a bowl, beat them with a fork or a whisk and add seasonings, like salt and pepper. For extra flavor, you may wish to add garlic powder and paprika to them as well.\n\npassage 3:Add salt to the boiling water. Boil the amount of time you usually do, then drain the water, and run some cold water over the eggs. Shut off the water, and add some ice cubes. Let the eggs sit until the ice has melted and the eggs have gone to room temp. Stick in the fridge at least over night.dd salt to the boiling water. Boil the amount of time you usually do, then drain the water, and run some cold water over the eggs. Shut off the water, and add some ice cubes. Let the eggs sit until the ice has melted and the eggs have gone to room temp. Stick in the fridge at least over night.\n\n"}