{"question": "how to cook cuban boston butt pork roast in oven", "passages": "passage 1:Directions. Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Sprinkle 1 side of the roast with 2 tablespoons of the House Seasoning, making sure to rub well. Flip the roast over and rub the remaining 2 tablespoons of House Seasoning. Repeat the process with the seasoned salt and liquid smoke.Place the roast in a large roasting pan.ngredients. 1  1 (5-pound) pork butt roast. 2  4 tablespoons House Seasoning, recipe follows. 3  2 tablespoons seasoned salt. 4  4 tablespoons liquid smoke, found in grocery store. 5  1 medium onion, sliced. 6  1 cup water. 7  3 bay leaves. 8  Barbeque sauce of choice, for serving. 9  House Seasoning: 10  1 cup salt. 11  1/4 cup black pepper. 12  1/4 cup garlic powder.\n\npassage 2:Directions. Puree garlic, oregano, olive oil, limes, and salt in a blender or food processor. Place meat in a roasting pan, and score the fat on top of the pork. Rub garlic mixture all over pork. Cover and refrigerate overnight or up to 24 hours. Flip roast occasionally and redistribute the rub.Preheat oven to 250 degrees. Remove meat from refrigerator 30 minutes before cooking.Place pan in the oven, fat side up, and add 1 cup of water to pan. Roast, uncovered, occasionally basting meat with juices and rub and turning pan to promote even cooking. Cook for 6 to 8 hours, until meat easily shreds.irections. Puree garlic, oregano, olive oil, limes, and salt in a blender or food processor. Place meat in a roasting pan, and score the fat on top of the pork. Rub garlic mixture all over pork. Cover and refrigerate overnight or up to 24 hours. Flip roast occasionally and redistribute the rub.\n\npassage 3:1 Remove roast from oven and let it rest for 20 minutes, then pull roast into shreds with a fork, leaving the meat in the pan juices-it's ready to serve. 2  Prepare Mojo Criollo: put onion slices in a bowl deep enough for the onions to be covered with the juice (I use a 2-cup glass measuring cup). Heat 1/4 cup of the lite olive oil in a skillet. 2  Quickly and carefully, pour the onions and all the juices into the hot oil andstir fry for about 2 to 3 minutes, just to soften the onions. 3  Pour the Mojo into a serving dish and serve with the roast on the side.\n\n"}