{"question": "how to tie a ribbon on a box", "passages": "passage 1:1.Start by determining how much ribbon you want to leave for the bow. I make half of a bow like this so I can see the finished size. 2. Hold the ribbon down at the top of the box, leaving this piece hanging. 3. Take the long piece and wrap it round the box in one direction. 4.When you get back to the top, fold the shorter hanging piece over, turn the box and pull on both ends. 5. Now take the long end and wrap it around the other side of the box.here's a technique to tying ribbon around a gift box and giving it a flat bottom so that it sits evenly on a table. The trick is to twist the ribbon at the top instead of at the bottom to avoid having a bump at the bottom of the box that causes it to wobble on the surface.\n\npassage 2:2. To add the ribbon, start with the box facing top side up. Using a spool of uncut ribbon, wrap the ribbon around the length of the box and bring the spool back to the center.Be sure you've left enough at the end to tie a bow or secure a handmade bow. 3. Cross the end and the spool of ribbon at the top of the box, then wrap the spool around the width of the box.Measure a length of ribbon from the spool that's approximately the same as the length of the first end, and cut. 4. Tie the two ends together in a knot at the center.e sure you've left enough at the end to tie a bow or secure a handmade bow. 3. Cross the end and the spool of ribbon at the top of the box, then wrap the spool around the width of the box. Measure a length of ribbon from the spool that's approximately the same as the length of the first end, and cut.\n\npassage 3:Hold the ribbon on that corner and lift the box to draw the ends of the ribbon under the box and to the corresponding corners on the top right side. The two ends of the ribbon are now visible on the top right side of the box. Tie the ends in a bow over the top right corner.old the ribbon on that corner and lift the box to draw the ends of the ribbon under the box and to the corresponding corners on the top right side. The two ends of the ribbon are now visible on the top right side of the box. Tie the ends in a bow over the top right corner.\n\n"}