{"question": "how to clean a oven without oven cleaner", "passages": "passage 1:THEN. This is where a squirt bottle comes in handy. Spray vinegar all over the baking soda. Use your fingers or a rubber spatula to spread the baking soda around so that it comes into contact with the vinegar and every dirty part of your oven floor.Let sit for 10-20 minutes. (alternative: Mix vinegar and baking soda in a bowl to form a paste, and then spread that over your oven floor.pray vinegar all over the baking soda. Use your fingers or a rubber spatula to spread the baking soda around so that it comes into contact with the vinegar and every dirty part of your oven floor.\n\npassage 2:Instructions. 1  Remove the oven racks: Remove your oven racks, pizza stone, oven thermometer, and anything else you have inside the oven. 2  Set aside. 3  Make a baking soda paste: In a small bowl, mix a 1/2 cup of baking soda with a few tablespoons of water. 4  Adjust the ratio of both as needed until you have a spreadable paste. Make a baking soda paste: In a small bowl, mix a 1/2 cup of baking soda with a few tablespoons of water. 2  Adjust the ratio of both as needed until you have a spreadable paste. 3  For me this took about 3 tablespoons of water to get the desired spreadable consistency.\n\npassage 3:Here it is: Step 1: Sprinkle a thick layer of baking soda over the baked-on mess (your oven needs to be completely cool for this). Step 2: Then, spray the baking soda down with water (white vinegar is even better). Step 3: When the baking soda dries out, spray it down again.Step 4: Come back in a couple hours, and scoop out the baking soda. All of that stuck-on mess should come right out with it (with no scrubbing required).Step 5: Wipe down the bottom of the oven to remove any remaining baking soda, and your oven is ready for use again.Filed Under: Clean It.tep 4: Come back in a couple hours, and scoop out the baking soda. All of that stuck-on mess should come right out with it (with no scrubbing required). Step 5: Wipe down the bottom of the oven to remove any remaining baking soda, and your oven is ready for use again. Filed Under: Clean It.\n\n"}