{"question": "how to make a horse stop kicking", "passages": "passage 1:If your horse seems to be a habitual kicker, there are a few things you can do. If you're out, tie a red ribbon in its tail to warn other people that the horse is known to kick. If you're riding in a group, ride at the back of the pack, and make sure others know of its habit.Teach your horse to respond to leg aids.A horse that is moving forward is less likely to kick. In a situation where another horse comes too close behind, you will be able to swing your horse's hind quarters to one side or another so your horse, even if it does kick out, can't hit its target.f you're out, tie a red ribbon in its tail to warn other people that the horse is known to kick. If you're riding in a group, ride at the back of the pack, and make sure others know of its habit. Teach your horse to respond to leg aids. A horse that is moving forward is less likely to kick.\n\npassage 2:1 Don't pull straight back on the reins, it can encourage a horse to back up while bucking. 2  Pull one rein to the side. 3  Preforming a one rein stop will also help to stop a bucking horse. 4  Grab one rein closer to the bit and draw it back to your thigh. 5  Make sure you do not also pull on the other rein. Don't pull straight back on the reins, it can encourage a horse to back up while bucking. 2  Pull one rein to the side. 3  Preforming a one rein stop will also help to stop a bucking horse. 4  Grab one rein closer to the bit and draw it back to your thigh. 5  Make sure you do not also pull on the other rein.\n\npassage 3:When you do that, your horse will instinctively see you as a leader. Horse kicking will be unlikely in that case because a horse doesn't kick his leader. We can make a horse move forward, backward, to the side, or in a circle. OK here are a few basic things we can do: 1  Ask your horse to go backwards.2  As your horse to move his forehand.3  Ask your horse to move his hindquarters. 4  Circle or lunge your horse. 5  Circle or lunge at liberty in the round pen.e can make a horse move forward, backward, to the side, or in a circle. OK here are a few basic things we can do: 1  Ask your horse to go backwards. 2  As your horse to move his forehand. 3  Ask your horse to move his hindquarters. 4  Circle or lunge your horse. 5  Circle or lunge at liberty in the round pen.\n\n"}