{"question": "how to remove fuzz balls from clothes", "passages": "passage 1:Instructions. Roll a lint roller over your clothes, letting the sticky surface pick up lint and fuzz. If you don't have a lint roller, wrap masking tape or packaging tape around your hand with the sticky side out. Press it against your garment to remove lint.Use a lint shaver or disposable razor to shave off fuzz.Clean the lint from the razor after every few strokes. Exercise caution so you don't damage clothing in the process. If the fuzz on your sweater is extra thick, run an electric beard or hair trimmer over it.se a lint shaver or disposable razor to shave off fuzz. Clean the lint from the razor after every few strokes. Exercise caution so you don't damage clothing in the process. If the fuzz on your sweater is extra thick, run an electric beard or hair trimmer over it.\n\npassage 2:1 Once you have accumulated a pile of pillings, use tape to remove from the fabric. 2  Wrap a large loop of packing tape around your closed fingers, sticky side out. 3  Press against the fabric to pick up the accumulated pillings.4  Replace tape when it becomes full of pills.tart with the lightest contact possible and increase as necessary. 1  Once you have accumulated a pile of pillings, use tape to remove from the fabric. 2  Wrap a large loop of packing tape around your closed fingers, sticky side out. 3  Press against the fabric to pick up the accumulated pillings.\n\npassage 3:Adjust Text Size: Bring your wardrobe back to life. Remove bothersome fuzz and pilling from your clothes easily and effectively. Gleener the Ultimate Fuzz Remover is equipped with six edges for use on different fabric types.It won't pull, tear, or damage woven or knitted fabrics, either.Also works on items around the house like blankets, upholstery, and curtains.djust Text Size: Bring your wardrobe back to life. Remove bothersome fuzz and pilling from your clothes easily and effectively. Gleener the Ultimate Fuzz Remover is equipped with six edges for use on different fabric types.\n\n"}