{"question": "how to make good pancakes", "passages": "passage 1:Whisk 1 1/2 cups flour, 3 tablespoons sugar, 1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder, 1/2 teaspoon salt and 1/4 teaspoon baking soda in a medium bowl. Whisk 1 cup plus 2 tablespoons milk, 4 tablespoons melted butter and 1 egg in a separate bowl; fold into the flour mixture until just combined (it's OK if there are some lumps).Brush a large nonstick skillet or griddle with butter and heat over medium-low heat.Add \u00bc cupfuls of batter and cook until bubbly on top and golden on the bottom, about 4 minutes. Flip and cook until golden on the bottom, about 2 more minutes.op pancakes with sliced bananas, the chocolate sauce and granola. Bacon-Pecan Syrup. Cook 4 strips bacon until crisp; crumble. Drain all but 1 tablespoon of the drippings; add 1/2 cup chopped pecans and cook 2 minutes. Add 1\u00bd cups maple syrup, the bacon and 1/4 teaspoon cider vinegar; heat through.\n\npassage 2:1 Stir flour mixture into banana mixture; batter will be slightly lumpy. 2  Heat a lightly oiled griddle or frying pan over medium high heat. 3  Pour or scoop the batter onto the griddle, using approximately 1/4 cup for each pancake. 4  Cook until pancakes are golden brown on both sides; serve hot. Combine flour, white sugar, baking powder and salt. 2  In a separate bowl, mix together egg, milk, vegetable oil and bananas. 3  Stir flour mixture into banana mixture; batter will be slightly lumpy. 4  Heat a lightly oiled griddle or frying pan over medium high heat.\n\npassage 3:1 In a separate bowl, mix together egg, milk, vegetable oil and bananas. 2  Stir flour mixture into banana mixture; batter will be slightly lumpy. 3  Heat a lightly oiled griddle or frying pan over medium high heat. 4  Pour or scoop the batter onto the griddle, using approximately 1/4 cup for each pancake. Combine flour, white sugar, baking powder and salt. 2  In a separate bowl, mix together egg, milk, vegetable oil and bananas. 3  Stir flour mixture into banana mixture; batter will be slightly lumpy. 4  Heat a lightly oiled griddle or frying pan over medium high heat.\n\n"}