Kimberly Tatum, 20: Vanishes On Her Way To Pick Up Her Paycheck In 1999
A quick trip turned into a mystery for the family of Kimberly Tatum. There are very few details available about Kimberly's case, but this is the information that could be gathered about the disappearance of the 20-year-old St. Louis, Missouri, resident.
According to reports, Kimberly Tatum was an employee at a local Sam's Club. It was just around the holiday season on December 22, 1999, when Kimberly was reportedly all set to make her way to work to pick up her paycheck. What happened next is unknown because Kimberly never arrived at Sam's Club, and her check went unclaimed.
Mystery Surrounds Kimberly's Boyfriend
Kimberly was said to have been living with a man when she went missing, and reports state that she was known even to use his last name. However, her family wasn't under the belief that the couple was married. Who that man is or was has not been named publicly, nor is there information about Kimberly's route to work, if she planned on stopping or meeting anyone else, if she drove a certain vehicle or took public transportation, or if the man she lived with was ever named as a person of interest.
Kimberly Tatum: What To Know
At the time of her disappearance, Kimberly Tatum was 5 feet 8 inches tall and weighed 160 pounds. She had black/dark brown hair and brown eyes. Kimberly has at least one tattoo of a black panther on her left shoulder with the word "Kim" above it. She was also known to use the last name "Lewis." Kimberly would be in her 40s at the time of this publication. Her dental records and fingerprints are reportedly not available. However, the Doe Network reports that Kimberly's DNA is on file.
Anyone with information about this case is urged to contact the St. Louis Metro Police Department at (314) 444-0100, (314) 444-5350, or their local authorities. Her agency case number is 99-167433.
Please share this story about Kimberly Tatum to help reignite the investigation into this case. She is our sister, and her life matters.
Sources
NamUs
Doe Network
The Charley Project