Senator Cruz Introduces Bill Preventing Schools From Supporting Illegal Immigrants
Earlier this year, a New York Representative passed a bill to prevent schools from receiving aid if they house illegal immigrants. Now, Senator Ted Cruz is introducing a Senate version of the bill. It’s called “The Schools Not Shelters Act”.
Republican Representative Marc Molinaro of New York introduced the bill earlier this year. It passed along with the support of four Democrats.
Cruz wants to ensure schools don’t become shelters for illegal immigrants. According to the senator, taxpayer funds should not have to be the solution to support illegal immigrants at the expense of children attending school.
According to Fox 26, Senator Cruz said:
"Under Joe Biden, we have a wide-open southern border. The Biden Border Crisis has created the largest illegal immigration crisis in our nation's history. Biden's open borders are an invitation for cartels to brutalize children, assault women, overrun our communities with illegal aliens, and flood this country with narcotics and fentanyl. These drugs kill over 100,000 people per year.”
“This bill would stop the Biden Border Crisis dead in its tracks by building the wall, ratcheting up asylum standards, increasing the number of Border Patrol Agents, and implementing effective border security policies."
In a statement, Cruz said according to Fox News:
"The invasion at our southern border is straining local services, overwhelming hospitals, and overcrowding schools. To make matters worse, leftist sanctuary cities are even using K-12 schools and college campuses as housing for illegal aliens."
"Instead of addressing the learning loss caused by Democrat COVID lockdowns, sanctuary cities are focused on diverting resources from students to house illegal aliens. Students are losing access to gyms, dorms, and other school facilities in order to accommodate illegal aliens. Housing unvetted, potentially dangerous illegal aliens in schools is a recipe for disaster."
Senator Cruz argues President Biden’s policies have not helped keep America’s borders safe.
Congressman Bob Good shares his thoughts on the bill.
What do you think about this bill?