Capital One Ordered to Pay Consumers From $190 Million Class Action Settlement
Are you a Captial One current customer, or a former customer?
Millions of Capital Onecustomers have less than a month to collect their paymentfrom a $190 million settlement after the company settled a class-action lawsuitwith victims last year.
The first round of emails began going out to customers on Sept. 28 for those who opted into the Capitol One settlement last year. The settlement spans back to 2019 when a hackergained access to the personal information of approximately 98 million Capital One users. The final approval of the class-action settlementwas on Sept. 13, 2022.
The class action settlement is worth $190 million. The money will go toward consumers paying claims for out-of-pocket losses, lost time, identity defense services, and restoration services; administrative and notice costs and service awards for settlement class representatives and any other settlement class member deposed in the case; and attorneys’ fees, costs, and expenses as approved by the court, according to the settlement website.
What if I did not opt-in?
Those who did not opt-in for the settlement in 2022 will not receive an email. The first email that arrives will be a courtesy email alerting the customer that they are receiving a payment. Please take note of the following information to avoid deleting a valid email. It will come from noreply@epiqpay.com and will be addressed by the recipient's first and last name.
The email will also include a payment amount. One Capital One customer was eligible for a $707 payment, according to a copy of their email obtainedby WGAL 8 News.
What if I spent money on Identity Theft Services?
Customers who spent money to deal with fraud or identity theft that they believed was fairly traceable to the 2019 data breach or to protect themselves from future harm as a result of the data breach could have submitted a claim for reimbursement of up to $25,000, according to the settlement website.
I received the first email, what is the next step?
After you receive the first email, Capital One recipients will receive another email that contains a link to claim the payment. Customers have until Nov. 27 to claim the electronic payment. If a customer does not respond by November 27, they will still receive a paper check from the settlement in December according to the agreement.
Consider that check to be a long-awaited end-of-the-year gift.