Texas once again heads to court — this time trying to stop feds from cutting razor wire at border
Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton is back in action, filing suit against the Biden administration Tuesday, hoping to stop federal agents from cutting razor wire at the border.
In the suit, Paxton alleges that the White House is "undermining" efforts by the state to ensure security amid record numbers of immigrants coming to the Texas border.
“Texas has the sovereign right to construct border barriers to prevent the entry of illegal aliens,” Paxton said in a press release.
Environmental and immigration advocates have raised concerns about the razor wire at the border and its implications for the environment and human safety, according to the Associated Press.
The "concertina wire" barriers have reportedly injured migrants as they have tried to cross into Texas along the Rio Grande in border cities such as Brownsville and Eagle Pass. In some cases, federal agents have had to cut the wire to free to the migrants caught in it, according to the AP.
The state has repeatedly butted heads and gone to court with the federal government as efforts ramp up to curtail illegal crossings at the Texas-Mexico border. The Department of Justice sued Texas in July to try to force Gov. Greg Abbott to remove buoys meant to block migrants from crossing the U.S.-Mexico border. Abbott then claimed the buoys were the Border Patrol's idea, and plans to restart construction on border walls along the Rio Grande.
“We allege that Texas has flouted federal law by installing a barrier in the Rio Grande without obtaining the required federal authorization,” Associate Attorney General Vanita Gupta said in a statement regarding the lawsuit.
“This floating barrier poses threats to navigation and public safety and presents humanitarian concerns,” Gupta said.
Abbott shot back this week, saying the Biden administration is breaking the law by trying to take down border barriers.
“Americans across the country were horrified to watch Biden’s open-border policy in action: agents were physically cutting wires and assisting the aliens’ entry into our state,” he said in a statement. “This is illegal. It puts our country and our citizens at risk. The courts must put a stop to it, or Biden’s free-for-all will make this crushing immigration crisis even worse.”