'Bold and the Beautiful' Spoilers: Eric's Moment Of Truth, Ridge Learns Dad Is Dying
The Bold and the Beautiful (B&B) spoilers for the week of October 30 tease that Eric Forrester's (John McCook) moment of truth has arrived. Soap Opera Digest reports that the fashion show proves to be a pivotal moment for the designer.
Eric is ready to put the work he and RJ Forrester (Joshua Hoffman) created out there. He believes that their designs will win the showdown and prove that he's the better designer. While he considers this line his final act, he reconsiders retiring after his line is a complete success.
During the fashion show, RJ struggles to keep his emotions in check. The Bold and the Beautiful spoilers say that Eric delivered the bad news to RJ about his health. RJ pushed his granddad to cancel the show and focus on his health. Of course, Eric refused. He wanted to give Ridge Forrester (Thorsten Kaye) a run for his money.
After the fashion show, Carter Walton (Lawrence Saint-Victor) needed some time to tally the results of the competition. The order was not all in; Carter promised to deliver the winner's name as soon as all sales were finalized.
When the result comes in, Eric and Ridge have a tender moment as they congratulate each other. They adore each other and do not want this competition to destroy their relationship.
The Bold and the Beautiful spoilers say that Eric explains to his son that he had to compete with him after feeling shoved out of Forrester Creations. Ridge says that he never meant to make him feel that way. Eric will always be an essential part of Forrester Creations' success.
Eric finally tells Ridge about his health crisis. The news crushes Ridge; he's not ready to say goodbye to his dad. The Forresters and Logans grapple with the news of Eric's health decline, unable to accept he only has six months to live.
The Bold and the Beautiful spoilers say that even though Eric's doctor told him he's dying, he's never felt better and more alive. He credits the newfound energy to getting back to designing with RJ.
B&B fans, who do you think wins the fashion showdown? Will Ridge confront RJ about keeping the secret from him? Keep watching The Bold and the Beautiful, airing weekdays on CBS and streaming on Paramount Plus. Please share your thoughts with me in the comments section below. Remember to follow me to read more of my content.