'Bold and the Beautiful' Spoilers: Ridge Breaks Down After Learning Eric's Dying, Steffy Comes Home
The Bold and the Beautiful (B&B) spoilers for the week of October 30 tease that Ridge Forrester (Thorsten Kaye) will finally learn about his father, Eric Forrester's (John McCook) devastating medical diagnosis. CBS released the weekly promo that shows Ridge upset about possibly losing his dad, and Steffy Forrester (Jacqueline MacInnes Wood) comes home to John 'Finn' Finnegan (Tanner Novlan).
Soaps Spoilers reports that Eric promised Donna Logan (Jennifer Gareis) and RJ Forrester (Joshua Hoffman) that he would tell Ridge and Brooke Logan (Katherine Kelly Lang) about his health decline. He didn't want anyone to discourage the fashion showdown. Eric knew Ridge would demand he followed the doctor's orders.
After the fashion show results come in, Eric pulls RJ aside to inform him of his plans to tell his parents about his medical diagnosis. He thanks his grandson for keeping his secret and helping him create his final line.
The Bold and the Beautiful spoilers say that RJ gets emotional, crying to Eric that he is not ready to say goodbye to him. Eric hugs RJ, telling him how much he means to him.
Next, Eric pays Ridge a visit to tell him that he's dying. The Bold and the Beautiful spoilers say Ridge breaks down. He doesn't want his dad to die. Ridge tells Eric that he cannot run Forrester Creations without him. Ridge vows to find a cure for his dad, making him promise not to lose hope.
Later, Ridge tells Brooke about Eric's health update. Brooke cries as she comforts Ridge in this challenging moment.
At the cliff house, Steffy comes home to an emotional Finn. She informs her husband that she's here to stay. Steffy is no longer afraid of Sheila Carter (Kimberlin Brown). She's ready to go to war with her and drive her out of their family unit.
The Bold and the Beautiful spoilers say that Finn is happy that his wife and kids are home. He cannot shake the feeling of doom, thinking about what's ahead with Sheila.
B&B fans, do you think Ridge will find a cure for Eric? Are you happy Steffy is back? Keep watching The Bold and the Beautiful, airing weekdays on CBS and streaming on Paramount Plus. Please share your thoughts with me in the comments section below. Remember to follow me to read more of my content.