China's Growing Hold on Michigan Farms
Over the last year there has been a rising concern as China has been buying lots of farmland in Michigan.
Rich now, China has a relatively small amount of U.S. farmland, as of 2021, the Chinese Communist Party owns around .9 percent of American farmland, but the increasing rate at which they are buying is raising warning flags, with a tenfold increase in foreign farmland acquisition since 2009.
Earlier this year, four witnesses, including former H.R. McMaster testified in front of Congress over concerns posed by the Chinese government and their rising influence in global markets.
One of which is food security, a point brought up recently by South Dakota Rep. Dusty Johnson who said, “Food security is national security," he said. "And I think we've seen that Russia was able to exercise undue influence over Europe because they supplied them [with] so much natural gas. And similarly, if China has control over food supplies in South America, Africa, Southeast Asia, even in North America, that can give them more power,more coercive power, over the globe."
Lawmakers and authorities are also showing concern as China increases their foothold in Michigan one farm at a time.
Michigan lawmakers Tom Kundse, R-Clare, and Matt Hall Richland, have introduced legislation that would make it illegal for “certain foreign ownership of certain real estate,” thereby making it harder for Chinese owned companies to buy Michigan farmland.
Now, many experts believe that China owning land isn’t exactly a threat to U.S. security as evidenced by Michigan State agricultural economist William Knudsen saying, “If I was worried about foreign ownership of the food supply I would not focus on land,” he said. “I’m focused on things like owning seed companies, major grain shippers and handlers because that’s where the choke points are in the agri-food supply chain.”
But there are other concerns with foreign land buyers.
One is the price of land. It is hard for Michigan farmers to compete with foreign buyers, which makes it harder for farmers to increase their farm size as well as deterring young farmers from starting out.
Currently, Michigan has 1.4 million acres of foreign held farmland, per the USDA. Most of this is held by German and Italian entities. Michigan ranks sixth in the country in foreign held farmland.
Right now, Chinese owned companies own 44,000 in the Midwest and it is increasing each year.
Recently, China has been making a number of investments in the state of Michigan, including a hotly contested battery factory in Green Charter Township.