Indiana Art Teacher Who Vanished While on Vacation Turned up a Body in a Puerto Rico River
A body was found in a Puerto Rican river while looking for an Indiana art instructor who vanished while on vacation.
According to a news statement from the Puerto Rico Police, which was published in Spanish, the deceased body was discovered floating in a rocky section of the river that runs along the Rio Blanco neighborhood in the Camino Viejo sector of Naguabo on Saturday morning.
Although it hasn't been verified, authorities stated they thought the remains might belong to a woman.
According to a translation of the release from the police, "it is not possible to identify the gender of the body at this stage or conclude whether it shows signs of violence."
Since Wednesday, October 11, the owner of the home where Amanda Lynn Webster, 44, was staying noticed that she had left her stuff and a rental car there, so the police stated they had been searching for her.
The corpse has not yet been recognized, but friend Sharon Rickson told the Indianapolis Star that individuals close to Webster—an art teacher at Thompson Crossing Elementary School, by the school's website—have stated they think she is dead.
Rickson told the magazine, "(Webster) was an incredible, positive light for her friends and family." "A large number of people will be affected by this loss."
The New York Post recognized Pamela Webster as Amanda's mother, and she expressed gratitude to people over the weekend for their "support and prayers."
The Franklin Township Community School Corporation said in a statement, "Amanda was an amazing teacher who was a champion for every student she came in contact with," according to the Indianapolis Star. "We are all better off for knowing Amanda."
PEOPLE's request for a response was not immediately answered by the school or its district.
"There are hundreds if not thousands of lives she directly impacted," Rickson said to NBC station WTHR.
According to Rickson, "a lot of people are going to be feeling this loss,"
Source: people.com