Prince Harry is "On Top Of the world" and has stopped using his "Distress signals"
According to a body language specialist, Prince Harry was "his most relaxed self" at the US Grand Prix because he was "on top of the world" and wanted to showcase "who he really is".
They claimed that the Duke of Sussex didn't exhibit any symptoms of anxiety or stress and instead appeared "elated" and "completely natural".
Following an analysis of Harry's most recent engagement, body language expert Darren Stanton came to the conclusion that, although the prince frequently indicates that he is experiencing "pressure" by putting his hands in his pockets, on this occasion he was communicating that he felt "free" as he was observed "mucking in" and "letting himself go".
Stanton, speaking on behalf of Betfair Casino, stated: "Prince Harry appears to be at his best at ease when he is at the Grand Prix.
"He is welcoming everyone in with open arms.
"Even though he is alone, he is happy and doesn't mind being self-sufficient.
"He is expressing to everyone how joyful, pleased, and authentic he feels. Harry is entirely natural; he's not under any pressure or tension. It indicates that he enjoys getting his hands dirty and letting go."
The expert went on to say that because the monarch wasn't trying to hide his feelings, he appeared to be happier than he had been in a long time.
"Harry will put his hands in his pockets or twiddle his ring finger to attempt to mask how he is truly feeling when he is stressed.
"It's a distress signal, and he has used this frequently on engagements, but, here, Harry is a man feeling on top of the world, but also very calm in this environment," Stanton said.
The Duke, he continued, appeared to be experiencing his actual self, one in which "he can let go and he doesn't want to hide any of that."
He clarified that Harry gave the impression of wanting to be "open and honest" and share his life with others.
"He's prepared to get involved and show people who he really is deep down", Stanton stated.