'Bold and the Beautiful' Spoilers: Steffy Rages At Finn Over Sheila, Liam Begs For Another Chance?
The Bold and the Beautiful (B&B) spoilers tease that Liam Spencer (Scott Clifton) remains determined to win Steffy Forrester (Jacqueline MacInnes Wood) over. Soaps Spoilers reports that Liam wants Steffy to return to Los Angeles and live with him. He begs her to leave John 'Finn' Finnegan (Tanner Novlan) and reunite with him.
On Friday (October 20), Liam questioned Finn about Steffy's reaction to Sheila Carter (Kimberlin Brown) and Deacon Sharpe's (Sean Kanan) relationship. Finn hesitated to answer Liam. He recommended Liam let him protect his wife and leave her alone.
It occurred to Liam that Finn had not told Steffy about Deacon's romance with Sheila. He asked why he hadn't told his wife that his mother was in a relationship with Hope Logan's (Annika Noelle) dad. Finn explains that he wants Steffy to feel safe. She wouldn't feel safe enough to come home if she knew Deacon and Sheila were together.
She Knows Soaps reports that Finn exits the office to tend to a patient. Liam decides to call Steffy to tell her about Sheila. The Bold and the Beautiful spoilers say that Steffy doesn't answer the phone call, so Liam leaves her a message detailing Sheila and Deacon's involvement and begs her to come back to him.
Steffy will see Finn's omission as a lie. She won't understand why he kept it from her. It will likely cause a big issue between them. After all, Finn hasn't been able to drive Sheila out of town. The opposite is true; Sheila is even more of a problem with a new job and a relationship with Deacon.
The Bold and the Beautiful spoilers say Steffy will return during the week of October 30, demanding answers from Finn.
B&B fans, do you think Steffy will leave Finn over Sheila? Will Steffy reunite with Liam? Keep watching The Bold and the Beautiful, airing weekdays on CBS and streaming on Paramount Plus. Please share your thoughts with me in the comments section below. Remember to follow me to read more of my content.