Texas Representative Believes Migrants Should Pay $2,000 to Enter the Country
First term Texas Representative Eddies Morales made an interesting proposal for the administration concerning migrants crossing the southern border. His district covers part of El Paso, Del Rio, and Eagle Pass which have been some of the highest crossing points for migrants crossing the southern border.
On Fox 4, Representative Morales spoke to Steven Dial on the migrant crisis. The Democratic Representative said President Joe Biden was not doing enough to support border states as migrants continue to cross the border.
Earlier this year, President Biden passed several immigration laws to get a better handle on migrants crossing the border. But this year, the numbers are almost as high as last year’s record numberaccording to Customs and Border Protection.
The final number for this fiscal year has not been released, but according to Border Protection, migrant encounters were about 100,000 short of surpassing last year’s record number of 2,378,944 migrants.
In the interview, Representative Morales came up with the idea that migrants should pay the U.S. $2,000 to enter the country.
According to Yahoo News, Representative Morales said:
"We can have these workforce agreements between a governor in Mexico and the governor of Texas. We need 100 laborers, let's say in Uvalde for some crop picking, they can do a joint cooperation agreement where they send them over here for a period of time and they're paying again, they're gainfully employed. The employers are taken care of also so that they don't get into any criminal conduct and employing these sorts of migrants. And it's a win-win situation for everyone.”
“Just as an example, we had 1,600 crossings daily that were taking place in the Eagle Pass/Del Rio sector alone. If we were to charge $2,000 for that initial processing fee and for them to get a non-voting ID card with an RFID chip in there, that would serve also as a credit card for them, we would be able to generate $3.2 million a day and over $1.2 billion annually just in the Eagle Pass/Del Rio sector."
You can watch the interview with Representative Morales below:
Do you think charging migrants $2,000 is a win-win for the country?