Prince Harry and Meghan Markle urged to reject 'Ludicrous' new job offer
A royal specialist has declared that Meghan Markle and Prince Harry's most recent business move—appearing on The Kardashians—would be "demeaning".
Even though the pair would like to live a life of luxury, they claimed that being on the show "would be ludicrous and rather demeaning".
The Kardashian family is allegedly courting the Duke and Duchess of Sussex to appear in their popular reality series The Kardashians.
It was revealed last week that "momager" Kris Jenner is courting the pair to have them featured on her family's popular Hulu series at some point in the upcoming months.
An insider claims that the families of the Sussex and Kardashian are becoming closer.
However, Harry's desire to participate in reality TV has now come under scrutiny from former BBC royal correspondent Jennie Bond, who implied that he would be better out of the spotlight "in a pair of shorts playing on the beach with his children."
She stated to OK! that they would unavoidably embrace lives as La La Land celebrities as they appear to have severed all ties to the Royal Family, with the exception of Princess Eugenie.
"In my opinion, being in The Kardashians would be absurd and somewhat degrading. They seem superior to that, in my opinion."
However, she went on, saying, "It is incomprehensible why Harry would wish to expose himself to the spotlight of reality TV."
"Surely bringing attention to the causes he cares about is his sole motivation for chasing the media he so despises? Why extend an invitation to additional people?"
The expert claimed that Meghan is beginning to resemble "the TV celeb she is." She even criticized Meghan for her World Mental Health Day speech attire, saying that it appeared as though "she was going to a glitzy ball rather than discussing mental health."
Prince Harry, according to Bond, "would always be happier playing on the beach with his children in a pair of shorts."
"But the celeb fame brings opportunities and, crucially, money."