Arizona Republican Kari Lake Receives Another Big Endorsement
Arizona Republican Kari Lake, who announced earlier this month that she was joining the race for Senator Kyrsten Sinema's seat in 2024, earned another big endorsement over the weekend as she seeks to achieve a more successful campaign than in 2022.
The news comes after Lake's first major endorsement came from former President and Republican presidential primary frontrunner Donald Trump, who announced his support for her Senate campaign shortly after Lake officially joined the race.
Lake Receives Another Endorsement
Republican Kari Lake received another major endorsement from the high-ranking members of the GOP this week after Senator John Barrasso, a member of the Republican Party leadership in the Senate, announced that he would be supporting her in her bid to unseat incumbent Kyrsten Sinema.
“Kari Lake will shine brightly for Arizona. She is a generational communicator who is giving voice to Arizona citizens,” he said in a statement.
“Joe Biden’s policies have crushed Arizona. Arizonans are dealing with record inflation – up 20 percent under the Biden administration. Arizona is also on the front lines of the worst illegal immigration crisis in American history. Nearly 8 million illegal immigrants under Biden, equal to the population of Arizona,” Barrasso continued. “The U.S. Senate needs a Senator from Arizona that understands these issues, and will fight hard to solve them.”
The endorsement marks a major step for Lake in her pursuit of election victory, something that eluded her in her 2022 bid for Arizona governor, in which she narrowly lost to Democrat Katie Hobbs.
Since her loss, Lake has embarked on numerous legal battles to try and overturn the results of that election, claiming rampant election and voter fraud in the state's most populous county.
Lake's arguments have thus far been unproven in court, with the fiery Republican's lawyers even receiving sanctions earlier this year related to a frivolous lawsuit.
All of that combined has led some within the GOP leadership structure to begin questioning whether or not Lake would be able to conduct a winning campaign in 2024, especially with her likely opponent coming in the form of Democrat Ruben Gallego, a rising star within the party that has proven to be very popular among the Democratic leadership and Arizona voters in recent years.
Nevertheless, with Lake entering the race the GOP leadership appears poised to rally the troops around the controversial Republican in their bid to take back the Senate in 2024.