The Kennedys aren't happy that RFK Jr. is running as an independent — they've disowned him again
Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., enemy of vaccines, has announced he's dropping out of the Democratic primary to run as an independent. The announcement comes to the Kennedy family's dismay, who've already disavowed him previously over remarks about COVID-19.
Kennedy's sister, Kerry Kennedy, tweeted on X following the announcement:
"The decision of our brother Bobby to run as a third-party candidate against Joe Biden is dangerous to our country," the tweet read. "Bobby might share the same name as our father, but he does not share the same values, vision, or judgment."
"We denounce his candidacy and believe it to be perilous for our country," Kerry Kennedy concluded, co-signed by Rory and Joseph Kennedy, and Kathleen Kennedy-Townsend.
The move by RFK, Jr. follows a troubled campaign for the country's highest office.
Kennedy was caught sharing his thoughts that the COVID-19 virus was an engineered bioweapon that put whites and blacks more at risk, but spared Jews and Chinese.
At a July press event, Kennedy reportedly said, “COVID-19. There is an argument that it is ethnically targeted. COVID-19 attacks certain races disproportionately.” He added, “COVID-19 is targeted to attack Caucasians and Black people. The people who are most immune are Ashkenazi Jews and Chinese.”
Despite this, he's managed to raise significant campaign funds, according to reporting from Mother Jones. Including from Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis, and other donors who give heavily to GOP campaigns, particularly in support of former president Donald Trump.
Kennedy’s announcement on Monday comes as Democrats become increasingly concerned that third-party candidates could throw the 2024 election to Trump.
Neither of the two main party front-runners has garnered a lot of public support so far this year, but Biden's approval among Democrats has been slipping in particular. Less than half of each party firmly supports their current favorites for the primaries. Nearly 30% of voters surveyed in one recent CBS/YouGov poll felt neither man was truly fit for office.
But that within-the-GOP support came was when he planned to run as a Democrat.
He's now facing criticism for the switch from that side too, including from Mr. Trump.
Despite the loss of his family's and the GOP's support for the Democrat ticket, he managed to raise some $11 million within hours of the announcement. RFK, Jr. is planning to court Tesla and X's Elon Musk as another potential backer in his bid for the Oval Office.