Mississippi Police Allegedly Concealed  The whereabouts of 37-year-old Dexter Wade
In a revelation that has left a community in disbelief, it has come to light that the Jackson Police Department might have known about the whereabouts of 37-year-old Dexter Wade all along. On March 5, 2023, Dexter Wade of Jackson, Mississippi, went missing after leaving his residence. Ten days later, his concerned mother, Bettersen Wade, reported his mysterious absence to the local police.
It has been unearthed that a mere hour after his departure that day, an off-duty corporal from the Jackson Police Department fatally hit Dexter while he was crossing Interstate 55 in Jackson. The highway, which is in close proximity to Bettersen Wade's residence, is a busy thoroughfare with six lanes.
While a post-mortem revealed that Dexter had sustained major head injuries and had traces of PCP and methamphetamine in his system, he wasn't carrying any identification. However, a prescription bottle discovered in his pocket led Hinds County investigator, LaGrand Elliot, to identify the victim as Dexter Wade. By March 9, after confirming Dexter's identity, Elliot claims to have handed over the information to the Jackson Police Department’s accident investigation unit for them to break the tragic news to his next of kin, Bettersen.
Contrary to expectations, Bettersen received no communication about her son's tragic fate. Despite her consistent efforts and numerous inquiries to the Jackson Police Department, she was continuously informed that there were no updates on Dexter.
Further adding to the tragedy, on July 14, 2023, without informing the family, the county interred Dexter in an anonymous pauper’s grave. It wasn't until August 24, 2023, more than five months after Dexter's disappearance, that Bettersen was finally contacted by a new investigator, informing her that an officer would visit her.
Feeling the weight of the looming news, Bettersen stated to NBC, "When she said that, I felt in my heart he was gone. To think they had me searching endlessly, all the while knowing his fate, is unfathomable."