What FL CVS Shoppers May Want To Know About a Potentially "Costly" Pharmacy Stocking Decision
As cold and flu season approaches, some Floridians may be stocking their medicine cabinets. However, Floridians who shop for these medications at CVS should be aware of a recent change as follows:
The Removal of Some Products Containing Phenylephrine: In late October of 2023, CVS announced that it would be pulling cold medicines that list only phenylephrine as its active ingredient.
This decision comes after a Food and Drug Administration (FDA) advisory panel determined that phenylephrine, the active ingredient in many cold medicines, was generally thought to be ineffective for nasal decongestion.
Of that determination, Dr. Diane Ginsburg of the University of Texas at Austin College of Pharmacy told CNN:
“We really should not have products on the market that are not effective."
Cold medicines that contain phenylephrine include Benadryl Allergy Plus Congestion, Sudafed PE, Nyquil, and Vicks Sinex.
The FDA has not yet mandated that any retailers remove products containing phenylephrine from their shelves, but CVS has still decided to remove items with only phenylephrine at this time.
In a statement to People Magazine, CVS said, in part:
"We are aware of the FDA Advisory Committee’s position on oral phenylephrine (PE) and will follow direction from the FDA to ensure products we sell comply with all laws and regulations. We are removing a small number of oral decongestant products that contain phenylephrine as the only active ingredient from CVS Pharmacy stores but will continue offering many other oral cough and cold products to meet consumer needs."
Sudafed PE is one example of a medication that contains only phenylephrine.
A Potentially Costly Yet Specific Decision: Supermarket News has indicated that this decision may be a "costly" one for CVS since CNBC has reported that drugs containing phenylephrine generated $1.8 billion in sales in 2022.
However, it is important to note that CVS has made the distinction that it is only removing products with phenylephrine as the only active ingredient.
Although CVS has been closing some of its stores nationally, it still has locations in many Florida cities, with some cities having multiple CVS locations.