Melissa Jordon, 26: Went On A Date & Vanished In 1995
The story of Melissa Jordon reads like a family's nightmare: a woman leaves for a date, never to return. It was stated that the 26-year-old went out with Onnie B. Nesbitt, 36, on December 22, 1995, in Milan, Tennessee. It was around the holidays, and everyone was preparing to put aside time with family. However, Melissa's loved ones were instead met with a mystery when she didn't return. Investigators couldn't find the couple for weeks, that is until Nesbitt resurfaced, alone.
The Circumstances
Melissa and Nesbitt were last seen in her vehicle, described as a tan-ish colored 1985 Chevrolet Celebrity or Buick Riviera. Reports state that the pair were off to have dinner, but neither returned to their homes that evening. Soon, a frantic search for both Melissa and Nesbitt was underway. Her car was later found abandoned outside of a home in January 1996. After checking the residence, authorities located “drugs, money, and weapons.”
Police first believed that both Nesbitt and Melissa met with foul play. Things would change when he resurfaced without the missing woman.The Charley Project describes him as a “violent man” with “a long history of criminal behavior.” Those infractions include a concerning list of “assaults and batteries and aggravated offenses.”
Nesbitt is reportedly serving a 24-year prison sentence concerning an unrelated weapons charge. Information regarding Melissa's other affairs, including her work life and family connections, is unclear. What has remained are government databases with little details about this mystery.
Contact Information
At the time of her disappearance, Melissa Jordon stood 5 feet 5 inches to 5 feet 6 inches tall and weighed 165 to 170 pounds. She had black/dark brown hair and brown eyes. Some agencies may spell her name as “Jordan.” Melissa would be in her 50s at the time of this publication. Her middle name is "Ann." She worked as a nurse's aide when she went missing.
Anyone with information about this case should contact the Milan Police Department at (731) 686-3309. The agency case number is 9512261212.
Please share this story about Melissa Jordon to help reignite interest in her disappearance. She is our sister, and her life matters.