New Fourth Dimension Metamaterial Discovery Suggests How UAP Might Defy Physics in Our Airspace
If you&#x27;ve been watching the recent UAP reporting or the US Congressional Committee Hearing on UAP, you already know that we have military and civilian pilot eyewitness accounts in volume, as well as footage of incidents like the the "tic-tac" live sighting in 2004. There are many more incidents whose video recordings are still classified and not yet available to the public. There are reports and testimony from career Navy and Air Force officials who&#x27;ve reported similar sightings. Comments such as the one made by Cmdr. David Fravor (Ret), made after the 2004 incident are common among experienced military pilots.
We don&#x27;t have the kind of physics understanding, now or back then, that would allow us the ability to do what we&#x27;re seeing these UAP do." - US Navy Cmdr. David Fravor (Ret)
New 4D Discovery
Well, hold on to your 3-Dimensional hat. Scientists in Missouri just discovered one piece of the puzzle that could allow us to zip past Newtonian physics and use, at least partially, fourth-dimensional metamaterials that could change our access to reality as we know it.
Scientists who engineered a novel “fourth-dimensional” material say they have made a breakthrough discovery that allows the control of energy waves on certain surfaces, according to newly published research. Generally, our human concept of space is constrained to only three dimensions, comprising an X, Y, and Z axis that governs our movement left and right, forward and backward, or up and down. However, theoretical fourth-dimensional concepts extend these properties beyond our everyday experience in reality. - The Debrief
Scientist Guolian Huang and his team at Structured Materials and Dynamics Lab at the University of Missouri, are reporting that their new metamaterial, which they&#x27;re calling "topological pumping," is engineered to control surface waves of energy on the exterior of solids. Huang and his researchers forecast that this discovery could be scaled-up to larger sizes where it could be used in a variety of unusual engineering applications which might be helpful in defense technology. In addition to defense applications, Huang says the new metamaterial could be used to develop stabilizing devices that could be added to the foundations of buildings to help structures survive earthquakes.
This is just the beginning of expanding our understanding. The continuing discovery of new ways to use metamaterials and a constantly evolving our knowledge of physics. This could bring us closer to realizing why military and civilian air sightings report the ability of UAP and alleged trans medium craft to move through our perceived two- and three-dimensional reality in ways we haven&#x27;t yet mastered.