2 Uninsured Florida Retirees Face Home Destruction As EF2 Tornado Rips Into Their Mobile Home Park
Mobile home parks are popular options for Florida retirees and "snowbirds" since they are often somewhat inexpensive, offer amenities that cater to retirees, and foster a sense of community.
But residents in one Florida mobile home park faced the dark side of Florida's unpredictable weather in the dark overnight hours of October 12, 2023, as a tornado ripped through the park and inflicted devastating damage on their homes.
73-year-old Sondra Martin is a snowbird who is originally from the Midwest but who chose to make a permanent home in Florida. She lives in Honeymoon Park in Dunedin.
She heard a tornado alert come over her phone at approximately 1:40 a.m. But as she put on her glasses, sat up in her bed, and attempted to read the alert, she heard the sickening sound of metal and knew that she was in trouble, telling the Tampa Bay Times:
“I could hear metal twisting and the wind. All I thought to do was run.”
Unfortunately, before she could escape, the tornado tore part of her roof off of her home so that she was looking up at "ugly clouds."
Sondra tried to escape her home through multiple doors, but they wouldn't open.
Next door, Sharon Murphy, Sondra's 83-year-old neighbor, had heard the alert and was taking cover in her bathtub. But her house was also hit by the tornado, which authorities say was an EF2, with wind speeds of 111 to 135 mph.
Sharon knew when the tornado made an impact, telling The Tampa Bay Times:
“...I heard it hit my house. I heard glass burst, and everything turned upside down.”
Sharon was able to help Sondra get out of her house, and they waited on lawn chairs for authorities to arrive.
Both women's homes are severely damaged. They aren't sure what they are going to do as neither are insured, although they told The Times that they may seek out temporary shelter from the Red Cross.
Despite their ordeal, Sharon is grateful that the two have each other and they survived, explaining:
“We got (out) together, and we’re OK. That’s the main thing. Yeah, our houses might be gone, but we’re still here.”
According to USA Today, nearly 15% of Florida homeowners do not have insurance, which is double the national average.