'Bold and the Beautiful' Spoilers: Katie Learns Eric's Secret, Will Spill The News To Ridge?
The Bold and the Beautiful (B&B) spoilers for the week of October 23 tease that Katie Logan (Heather Tom) learns about Eric Forrester's (John McCook) health crisis. Soap Opera Digest reports that Donna Logan (Jennifer Gareis) tells her sister about Eric's struggles and asks her to keep it a secret until after the fashion show.
Soaps Spoilers reports that Katie stops by to see her sister and catch up with Eric. She senses something is off but cannot figure out what is really going on with them. Katie exits the Forrester mansion but returns after leaving her phone in the living room. When she rushes inside to get her phone, she sees Eric with his doctor. Katie demands to know what's going on with Eirc, pressuring her sister to come clean.
Donna comes clean and tells Katie about Eric's condition. Eric explains his health struggles, adding that's why this line is so important to him. It could be his last chance to make a mark on the fashion world.
The Bold and the Beautiful spoilers say that Katie encourages Eric to tell Ridge Forrester (Thorsten Kaye) about his health decline. She thinks it's unfair to keep him in the dark.
Katie immediately feels terrible for Donna. This is too heavy of a secret not to talk to her sisters about it. She worries about how Donna will handle the situation if the doctor tells Eric his condition is progressive and won't improve.
The Bold and the Beautiful spoilers say that Katie agrees to keep Eric's secret, but only until the fashion show. She promises to do everything possible to make Eric's line a hit. Katie cannot help but feel upset by the shocking news, crying at the possibility of losing Eric.
B&B fans, will Katie keep Eric's secret? Will Eric have a health crisis at the fashion show? Keep watching The Bold and the Beautiful, airing weekdays on CBS and streaming on Paramount Plus. Please share your thoughts with me in the comments section below. Remember to follow me to read more of my content.