Greg Abbott fighting 'misinformation and prejudice' with new Israel-Hamas materials for schools
Texas Gov. Greg Abbott is trying to hit back against "misinformation and prejudice" about the Israel-Hamas conflict with new state curriculum resources for schools.
Abbott said in a statement that the resources will "supplement the current comprehensive approach to teaching world studies in Texas."
The governor went on to say "The future of Texas depends on the thorough education and guidance of our bright students. Working together, we can eliminate the ignorance that spurs antisemitism and bigotry through knowledge and truth.”
"The State of Texas stands strong with Israel and our Jewish neighbors during the heinous acts of war committed by the terrorist group Hamas, and we will not allow misinformation and prejudice to undermine the support the Jewish community needs during this time of conflict," Abbott said in the statement.
Resources included in the material are a guide to "conscientious conversations" on the Israel-Palestine conflict via the Anti-Defamation League (ADL). The curriculum supplements target kids grade 6-12, and includes a guide for parents for talking with their kids about violence from Common Sense Media,
Some of the resources included in the material are a guide to "conscientious conversations" on the Israel-Palestine conflict from the Anti-Defamation League for kids grades six through twelve and a guide for parents about talking to kids about violence from Common Sense Media, a nonpartisan education nonprofit.
The ADL told Business Insider in 2021 that conflicts between Israel and Hamas contributed to a 34% rise in antisemitic incidents in the U.S. 2021 marked an 11-day war between Israel and militants in Gaza, leading to a death toll of over 240 Palestinians and a dozen Israelis.
The Jewish Federations of North America (JFNA), which represents some 400 Jewish groups in the US, previously told Insiderthere are "no known credible threats to the US Jewish community," but it is still recommending Jewish facilities to enforce security protocols and coordinate with law enforcement for security.
The conflict has also sparked anti-Islamic violence, including the murder of a 6-year-old boy at the hands of his own landlord, who admitted in court that his murder was due to his family being Muslim.
In 2019, Governor Abbott signed Senate Bill 1828 to establish Holocaust Remembrance Week in Texas public schools to educate students about the Holocaust.