ESPN ranks Virginia State University's Marching Band in Petersburg, Virginia third in the country
I attended Virginia State College (VSC) in Petersburg, Virginia from 1964 to 1968. The school was renamed Virginia State University (VSU) in 1979. Even though that was decades ago, I have to be extremely careful not to refer to the school by its former name.
While at VSU, the name of the marching band was the famed Marching 110. Since my days on the campus, the marching band was renamed the Trojan Explosion Marching Band in 1984.
The Trojan Explosion Marching Band
The Trojan Explosion Marching Band is one of the best HBCU bands in the country, according to rankings by ESPN in October 2023. The band is ranked third in the Division II/NAIA category in ESPN's HBCU Band of the Year rankings posted by HBCU Gameday.
Even though the ranking is third in the country, it is subject to change when the list of 15 bands is narrowed down to the top 10 bands per division, and the top five bands will be revealed in November 2023. Then the top two bands in each division will be given a chance to compete for the ESPN Band of the Year title. The top band will be announced in a special on December 15, 2023, in the Mercedes-Benz Dome in Atlanta, GA with the show starting at 6 PM EST. It will be simulcast on ESPN3 and ESPN Plus.
Characteristics of the Trojan Explosion Marching Band
The renowned Trojan Explosion Marching Band continues to be a captivating show-style band. It has high intensity, musicality, and showmanship on and off the field.
The band has been selected to attend the Honda Battle of the Bands for 9 consecutive years. The drum line performed at the White House for President Barack Obama during the signing of the HBCU Funding Bill.
The Trojan Explosion Marching Band has been in the national spotlight several times this year. It was invited to perform at the White House and was on NBC's Today Show in February. It performed at the National Battle of the Bands competition in Houston, Texas in August and was featured on a Fox Sports segment highlighting the best HBCU bands in the country.