Iraq Service Campaign Medal Reinstated
In response to renewed threats against U.S. personnel in the Middle East, the Department of Defense has reinstated an Iraq campaign medal.
According to a memorandum signed by then-Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness Gilbert Cisneros in August, the Pentagon once again awarded the Inherent Resolve Campaign Medal to eligible service members serving in Iraq. According to a document received by Military Times, the medal's eligibility has been renewed retroactive to January 1 and will continue through December 31, 2024.
U.S. Central Command requested the adjustment, according to Defense Department spokesman Nicole Schwegman, "due to Iraq no longer being classified as a combat mission."
Although the award was created in 2016 to recognize service in either Iraq or Syria, the requirements for the medal were revised in 2017 to restrict eligibility to only those who have served in Syria.
There has been a rise in hostile actions against American troops in the Middle East, notwithstanding Schwegman's assertion that the reinstatement of the award for troops in Iraq was not prompted by the recent intensification of drone operations there.
Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin briefed senators on Capitol Hill this morning on the Pentagon's plans to fight such actions and the escalating tensions in the region.
"Our personnel have been under frequent attack in recent days by Iranian-backed paramilitary groups. "These assaults have got to stop," he said. U.S. forces, acting on the president's orders, have carried out targeted self-defense strikes against Iranian IRGC and allied targets in eastern Syria. We will not hesitate to take further necessary measures to safeguard our people if Iranian-backed militants continue to attack U.S. forces.
As combat escalates between Israel and the Islamist group Hamas, the United States is sending more troops and resources to the Middle East, where they will join the roughly 2,500 already stationed in Iraq and the 900 already stationed in Syria.
Edited by Newsbreak Contributor Denys Shybinskiy