Mary Ann Johnson, 54: Disappeared From L.A. In 1994
For decades, the missing person case involving Mary Ann Johnson has gone unsolved. According to reports, the 54-year-old may have run into trouble, but what kind remains a mystery. It’s said that just a few days before Christmas in 1994, the 54-year-old was threatened by men hired to break her legs.
Three men told Mary Ann they were paid $800 to harm her. However, they decided to pocket the money and instead warned her of the potential danger. Although they spared her, the men did not reveal who hired them for the would-be assault. They also didn’t tell Mary Ann why the unidentified person went to such lengths to hurt her.
On January 19, 1994, Mary Ann Johnson went to work at the Robinson’s May Department Store in Los Angeles, California, as an account representative. Mary Ann was last seen leaving her job after telling her co-workers that she was meeting up with her estranged husband, Andrew Johnson, the next day.
Andrew told police that he did, indeed, speak with his wife the day she vanished. Yet, he claimed they were not scheduled to meet the following day. He admitted they were reconciling, and while they were separated in 1993, neither party filed for divorce. The pair also owned a restaurant in Van Nuys, California, called Louisiana West. It went out of business prior to Mary Ann going missing.
On January 26, Mary Ann Johnson’s vehicle was located at the eatery’s parking lot. The restaurant was locked, and Mary Ann’s keys were found inside her car. It is unclear if any evidence was recovered from the vehicle or the establishment. Updates about this case are scarce, but Mary Ann is listed as an endangered missing person. It is unclear if the authorities have named a person of interest.
At the time of her disappearance, Mary Ann Johnson stood 5 feet 7 inches tall and weighed 150 pounds. She had reddish brown hair, brown eyes, and her ears were pierced. What she was last seen wearing is unknown. Her X-Ray records are reportedly not on file. Mary Ann would be 83 years old at the time of this publication.
Anyone with information about this case is urged to contact the Los Angeles Police Department- Adult Missing Persons Unit at (877) 275-5273 or their local authorities. The agency case number is 941006395.
Please share this story about Mary Ann Johnson to help ignite interest in her missing person case. She is our sister and her life matters.