'Monster' waves from Super Typhoon draws pro-surfers to California's famed Mavericks for one day
On October 18, California's legendary big wave spot, Maverick's, came to life in a way that only Mother Nature could orchestrate.
As if answering the call of the sea, surfers and thrill-seekers from far and wide flocked to this iconic surf destination, where the waves took on a life of their own as high as 18 feet, according to surfers.
The Mav's crew, known for their tight-knit community and unwavering commitment to the art of big wave riding, wasted no time responding to the siren call of the ocean.
With the swell in question being generated by Super Typhoon Bolaven, their dedication to the sport was put to the ultimate test.
Super Typhoon Bolaven's journey began a week prior in the western Pacific.
Initially, it was just a blip on the weather radar, slowly gaining strength as it made its way northeast.
As it passed between Guam and the Northern Mariana Islands in mid-October, it didn't appear to be anything out of the ordinary.
But, then something remarkable happened, according to the surfing community.
Bolaven underwent a meteorological transformation known as rapid intensification. In the span of a mere 12 hours, its wind speeds catapulted from around 90 mph to a jaw-dropping 160 mph, morphing it from a category one to a catastrophic category five hurricane.
At its zenith, the typhoon was unleashing winds of astonishing power, reaching speeds of up to 180 mph.
As the colossal waves generated by the force of Bolaven began their journey towards the California coast, surfers and thrill-seekers around the region knew that Maverick's was on the cusp of an unforgettable day.
Super Typhoon Bolaven may have brought havoc and destruction in its wake, but it also gifted California's most famous big wave spot with an unforgettable day of surfing.
It was a reminder that in the world of big wave riding, when the call of the ocean beckons, those who heed it are rewarded with an experience like no other.