'Big Brother 25' Spoilers: POV Week 12 Meeting, Who's The Final Target?
Big Brother 25 (BB25) spoilers tease that the Week 12 Power of Veto meeting solidified the target for eviction. Big Brother Network reports that Jag Bains, the POV winner and Head of Household (HOH), decided not to use the POV to save one of the nominees. America Lopez and Blue Kim remain on the block, with one of them becoming the third jury member on Thursday's live eviction.
Jag won the HOH competition on Thursday night. He nominated Blue and America for eviction. He told America and Bowie Jane that his target was Blue. She would only be safe this week if she could win the POV competition. But Blue failed to win the competition. Instead, Jag won the POV competition, giving him complete power for the week.
Big Brother 25 spoilers say that Jag briefly considered saving America from the chopping block to backdoor Cirie Fields. He worries that Cirie will be hard to beat in the final two, as she has a personal connection to everyone in the house and jury. But Jag and Matt Klotz decided against backdoor Cirie, leaving the nomination the same.
Blue has her work cut out for her. She could get the votes to stay, but that will take some work. She must make deals and promises to keep others safe during the next double eviction.
Jag wants Blue to leave. He's scared that she will win the HOH or POV competition and take a shot at him. He knows that he's made himself a big target. He doesn't want anyone left in the game that could win the competition, making it easy for him to skate to the final two.
The Big Brother 25 houseguests don't know that Thursday is a double eviction. Jag could leave the house right after Blue if he's not careful. He cannot compete in the next HOH competition, making it the perfect time for someone to take a shot at him and send him packing.
BB25 fans, who do you want to leave during the double eviction? Keep watching Big Brother 25, airing on CBS and streaming on Paramount Plus. Please share your thoughts with me in the comments section below. Remember to follow me to read more of my content.