Accused L.I. shoplifter arrested again at Macy's coughs up $500 bail
A 19-year-old Long Island man was sent to jail today, held on $500 bail after his arrest just 10 days after he was arraigned in a shoplifting case.
This time, he's charged with 2 Felonies -- Grand Larceny and Burglary -- for returning to Macy's allegedly in violation of a trespass ban -- allegedly to do more shoplifting "in concert with another", an Assistant District Attorney told a judge at the defendant's arraignment this morning in Nassau County District Court.
The "other" perp was not identified. Loss Prevention personnel at the Macy's Valley Stream store told 5th Precinct Police that Dany Rivera entered the store unlawfully and left with $839.98 worth of merchandise without paying for it, the Assistant DA said.
Only 11 days ago, Rivera appeared before Judge Jaclene Agazarian and pled Not Guilty to shoplifting. Those proceedings, however, were interrupted by a motion from the Republican District Attorney Office seeking to reduce the Felony Grand Larceny charge in that case to Misdemeanor Petit Theft "in the interest of justice".
Judge Agazarian granted that motion.
But the case is far from over. Rivera pleaded Not Guilty to the reduced charge on October 10, 2023. Then he was Released on his Own Recognizance -- and ordered not to go back to Macy's while his case is still pending.
Today, no one filed any motion to reduce Rivera's Felony charges. Not even close.
Instead, Judge Lisa Petrocelli declared that Rivera's new shoplifting case is eligible for bail per Bail Reform. The Judge cited New York Criminal Procedure Law 510.10(4)(t). That law calls theft a "harm to property" unless the theft is "negligible". If it's committed with another crime, a judge can set bail.
Rivera's public defender today tried to change the judge's mind about bail. He pointed to Rivera's age -- 19. That's too young to be held in the county jail, the lawter said. But he also said there was reasonable doubt about the police. What if they have the wrong suspect? "The People don't know who the complaining witness is," the lawyer told the judge. "They don't have any identification."
The Judge pointed to Rivera's other case and decided that bail wasn't just allowed, but appropriate.
Rivera goes back to court next week on both cases. Inmate records indicate he was bailed out this afternoon.