Here comes the rain again for part of the weekend, strong winds & colder Northeast US Sunday
We have arrived at Friday and the doorstep of the weekend and once again for the 7th straight weekend and 21 of the last 24, we are going to see rain on at least one of the two weekend days. In fact we are seeing it today as weak low pressure off the Mid Atlantic coast moves northeast today into tonight. We also have a cold front moving east across the Appalachians and between the two systems we will see clouds and showers raound today.
The rains will not be continuous as this low won't really develop very much. Much of the energy is coming from the front itself so there will be some breaks in between. Most of what is on the radar is patchy in nature so expect it be on and off through the day. Temperatures today will be lower than yesterday thanks to clouds, occasional rain, and a south wind. Highs will be mostly in the 60s.
During tonight we will likely see bands of showers moving through and again there will be some breaks in the rain between those bands as they move west to east. Overnight temperatures will be in the 50s to around or just over 60. Saturday we see showery rains into the afternoon before the front clears. A second low develops offshore and strengthens Saturday. Winds shift around to the northwest and pick up later in the afternoon and evening. Rains should be mostly done by early to mid afternoon. Saturday temperatures will be in the 60s.
Gusty winds continue Saturday night and Sunday as the low deepens in the Gulf of Maine and heads northeast. We look for no worse than partly sunny skies Sunday with perhaps a bit more in the way of clouds inland. Winds will gust to 30 and possibly as high as 40 mph especially along the coast. Temperatures will be chilly Sunday with highs just in the low to mid 50s.
Sunday night into Monday morning we will see temperatures drop into the upper 30s to mid 40s for lows under clear skies. Monday dayside should be partly sunny to occasionally mostly cloudy as an upper trough moves through. Highs Monday will be in the low to mid 50s. Monday night into Tuesday morning will be the coldest morning of the fall season so far with coastal and urban lows between 40 and 45 but inland lows will be in the 30s and even some 20s in cold spots to the north in parts of the Hudson Valley. We could see the first frosts of the season inland. Tuesday looks good as does Wednesday through Friday of next week as temperatures start to warm after Tuesday. We could see highs into the 70s by the end of the week.