After 2 months, escaped VA inmate Naseem Roulack captured
After over two months on the run, the escaped inmate Naseem Roulack has been captured, Virginia Department of Corrections (VADOC) announced.
Roulack was taken into custody around 9 a.m. yesterday, October 25, by the U.S. Marshals Service and Fairfax County Police Dept.
Roulack, a 21-year-old who is also known was Lil Nas, escaped on August 12 at around 5:50 a.m. from Bon Secours St. Mary’s Hospital in Henrico, VADOC said earlier this month in a statement on the findings of its administrative investigation.
He was there seeking treatment and was supposed to be under the watch of two corrections officers. But both admitted to being sleep when he escaped, VADOC said.
Additionally, the investigation found that Roulack was wearing nylon flex cuffs on his wrists and legs when he escaped.
He had been wearing flex cuffs on his wrists but metal cuffs on his legs when the hospital requested to do an MRI. The metal leg cuffs were then replaced by flex cuffs for the procedure. According to VADOC, the metal leg cuffs should have been reapplied afterward, but they weren’t.
“The two officers chose to resign from the VADOC in lieu of termination. The officers officially left employment with the VADOC on August 23,” the department stated.
After his escape from the hospital, Roulack was implicated in a Montgomery County, MD armed carjacking and kidnapping incident prompting that County to deem him wanted and offer a $10,000 reward.
Montgomery County’s reward paired with a reward from the U.S. Marshals service brought the total offered for Roulack to $20,000. In yesterday’s announcement from VADOC, there was no mention of whether anyone was eligible to claim any of the reward funds.
When Roulack escaped, he was serving a 13-year sentence at Greensville Correctional Center for aggravated malicious wounding, grand larceny and hit and run. VADOC also did not state where he currently is or if he would be returned to that facility.
VADOC said this is still an active investigation, and the department was not releasing additional information at this time.
***
Follow theWatchful Eye on TwitterandFacebookto keep up with what's happening in Virginia!
Did You See: VADOC Staffer Arrested for Contraband at Sussex Prison?