Six Virginia Democratic Representatives voted to oust Speaker Kevin McCarthy
Kevin McCarthy is no longer the Speaker of the House. He was the first Speaker of the House to be removed from that position by a House vote. His short term as Speaker of the House came to an end on Tuesday, October 3, 2023, after less than a year in that position.
The House voted 216 to 210 to remove McCarthy. Members of his own party along with six Virginia Democrats helped to vote him out.
Reasons to remove McCarthy
Representative Matt Gaetz, R-Florida, introduced the measure to remove McCarthy on Monday night, two days after the Speaker brought a measure to the House floor to avert a shutdown and keep the government open for 45 additional days.
Gaetz asserted that McCarthy reneged on some of the promises he made in January before he was elected to be the Republican Speaker of the House.
Representative Bob Good, R-5th, a Virginia member of McCarthy's own party, joined the delegation's six Democrats to remove McCarthy from his position.
Good asserted in a floor speech Tuesday that McCarthy was more interested in remaining Speaker of the House than in cutting spending.
Good said:
"The Speaker this past Friday in the Republican conference meeting made it abundantly clear that he was willing to do anything to avoid the temporary discomfort and the pressure of a pause in the 15% of nonessential federal government operations, which would guarantee that we would lose to the Senate Democrats and the White House."
Virginia Democrats who voted to oust McCarthy
The six Democratic Representatives in Virginia's delegation who voted to oust McCarthy:
Bobby Scott, D-3rd
Jennifer McClellan, D-4th
Abigail Spanberger, D-7th
Don Beyer, D-8th
Jennifer Wexton, D-10th
Gerry Connolly, D-11th
McClellan said in a statement:
“Today is a solemn day for the House of Representatives, as Kevin McCarthy became the first speaker to be removed from his leadership position through a motion to vacate. Since day one of the 118th Congress, McCarthy has shown an inability to govern, a lack of leadership over his conference, and an unwillingness to focus on the issues that matter to the American people.
About Kevin McCarthy's short tenure
Kevin McCarthy was voted into his position on the 15th ballot. He served as the 55thspeaker of the United States House of Representatives from January to October 2023.
McCarthy told lawmakers Tuesday evening he would not run again for speaker. There is no obvious successor to lead the House Republican majority. A top McCarthy ally, Rep. Patrick McHenry, R-N.C., was named speaker pro tempore, to serve in the office "for the time being" until a new speaker is chosen.