{"name": "Pizza Mizza", "address": "", "city": "Santa Barbara", "state": "CA", "categories": "Food Delivery Services, Food, Restaurants, Pizza, Italian", "hours": {"Monday": "11:0-21:0", "Sunday": "11:0-21:0"}, "attributes": {"BusinessParking": {"garage": false, "street": false, "validated": false, "lot": true, "valet": false}, "RestaurantsReservations": true, "OutdoorSeating": true, "WiFi": "free", "RestaurantsTakeOut": true, "RestaurantsGoodForGroups": true, "Music": null, "Ambience": {"romantic": false, "intimate": false, "touristy": false, "hipster": false, "divey": false, "classy": false, "trendy": false, "upscale": false, "casual": true}}, "business_stars": 3.5, "review_info": [{"review_stars": 5.0, "review_date": "2018-12-02 05:42:56", "review_text": "Bummed only delivery now probably my favorite pizza in town everywhere else sucks and are making restaurants you feel like you almost have to dress up for now and over priced including the owners of Pizza Mizza new pizza restaurant on state"}, {"review_stars": 4.0, "review_date": "2018-11-01 01:16:07", "review_text": "This pizza place is pretty average. They have a huge list of different kinds of pizzas, pastas, salads, and more! I recently tried to call an order in to pick up but was told they only do delivery right now so I ended up just doing delivery. I couldn't decide what to order with all of their different choices and sizes! They even have cauliflower and gluten free crust options!\n\nI ended up getting the personal size Hawaiian pizza with a normal crust. It took about an hour to arrive at my house but when I finally got it I was so happy and hungry. The pineapple was fresh, along with the ham and the crust was cooked with the perfect amount of crisp! They also gave me multiple sides of ranch which I was stoked about since most places always never actually bring the ranch when you order it or give you only one.\n\nThey also gave me plates and cheese along with the hot peppers! Overall I had a great experience here getting delivery here and I can't wait to order them again! :)"}, {"review_stars": 3.0, "review_date": "2018-10-13 00:27:17", "review_text": "I always wondered why this place had such average to low rating and after a few times of visiting this place, I can see why. Food is great! I have no complaints over their food. There used to be a Pizza Mizza in Ventura and I remember going there often so when I saw there was one in SB, I had to go give them a try.\n\nAs for customer service here...\nI'm always left wondering if there's anyone in charge here or if any of the front staff even care about their job. This isn't my first time waiting here over 30minutes for food which is beyond ridiculous. I've ordered different things and they all take so long. I don't know if they're just short staffed but this is not acceptable in any restaurant business especially if this is a continuous problem. My boyfriend ordered a sandwich which they left sitting on their rack for 10min while my pasta was nowhere to be seen. I was sick of their tendency to just hang out, have conversations amongst each other, and not care about their hungry customers. I went to the front and asked them if that plate on the rack was for us and they said that it just came out and were waiting for my pasta to come out. That sandwich did NOT JUST come out but obviously they were too busy with their conversations to realize it was there. Whatever, I brought it to my table and we waited another 10 minutes for my pasta. I saw two plates again sitting on the rack for about 5mins and I told myself if none of those are mine, I'm going to leave. Well it turns out none of them were mine and one server who was aware of our situation came to notify us that due to the delay, he had refunded my entire bill. Great. So I'm still hungry. The food is most likely going to take more time. I got my money back. I'm not waiting anymore. So my boyfriend and I left. \n\nThe food is so good that I would've given this place 5 stars but unfortunately, the staff is a big miss. Maybe management should train their staff again or hire people who actually care about their job."}]}