{"name": "Santa Barbara Tamales To Go", "address": "20 E Cota St", "city": "Santa Barbara", "state": "CA", "categories": "Restaurants, Mexican", "hours": {"Wednesday": "11:0-13:0", "Thursday": "11:0-13:0", "Friday": "11:0-13:0", "Saturday": "11:0-13:0"}, "attributes": {"BusinessParking": null, "RestaurantsReservations": null, "OutdoorSeating": null, "WiFi": null, "RestaurantsTakeOut": null, "RestaurantsGoodForGroups": true, "Music": null, "Ambience": null}, "business_stars": 4.5, "review_info": [{"review_stars": 2.0, "review_date": "2015-12-30 19:47:07", "review_text": "Important to note their hours are 11-2. I have tried on 4 different occasion to get tamales from this place.  So far my experience has been very disappointing. The first time they were sold out and closing before the 2:00 hour. The next time I went early and was in line at about 11:45 when again, they were sold out of all types but two. The next time I went at 11:10 and was told while standing in line the were sold out of everything. Keep in mind this is just a few minutes after they opened. I was able to speak with the owner and he gave me his card and said the best thing to do was to order ahead to be sure to get what I wanted. So the next day I called ahead to order for the following day.  Feeling confident I would finally have my chile and cheese tamales I was there at 11:00 only to be told they had not arrived with the tamales yet and to come back in five minutes. I did this twice more.  The woman then took my number and assured me she would call when they arrived.  I did receive a call only to inform me they had made a mistake and there were no tamales that day for me.  This business seems highly successful by the number of people lined up for their tamales however their service is slow, disorganized and inconsistent.  Every time I was in line I heard the same kind of experiences by other folks.  I would also agree with another review that these are not the best tamales and a little small for the price. The convenience of the location to my work place is the only reason I have tried so many times.  However the last time was final straw and I will not be back.\n\nUpdate to this review as of 12-30-15.  Today Richard Lambert, president and I believe owner of Tamales To Go tracked me down and made a peace offering of warm tamales for the mess up on my last order.  This was very nice and a great stride in the right direction toward good customer relations.  I will give them another try in the future based on this action."}, {"review_stars": 2.0, "review_date": "2015-12-24 13:44:14", "review_text": "Important to note their hours are 11-2. I have tried on 4 different occasion to get tamales from this place.  So far my experience has been very disappointing. The first time they were sold out and closing before the 2:00 hour. The next time I went early and was in line at about 11:45 when again, they were sold out of all types but two. The next time I went at 11:10 and was told while standing in line the were sold out of everything. Keep in mind this is just a few minutes after they opened. I was able to speak with the owner and he gave me his card and said the best thing to do was to order ahead to be sure to get what I wanted. So the next day I called ahead to order for the following day.  Feeling confident I would finally have my chile and cheese tamales I was there at 11:00 only to be told they had not arrived with the tamales yet and to come back in five minutes. I did this twice more.  The woman then took my number and assured me she would call when they arrived.  I did receive a call only to inform me they had made a mistake and there were no tamales that day for me.  This business seems highly successful by the number of people lined up for their tamales however their service is slow, disorganized and inconsistent.  Every time I was in line I heard the same kind of experiences by other folks.  I would also agree with another review that these are not the best tamales and a little small for the price. The convenience of the location to my work place is the only reason I have tried so many times.  However the last time was final straw and I will not be back."}, {"review_stars": 5.0, "review_date": "2015-11-17 07:19:50", "review_text": "AMAZINGLY DELICIOUS TAMALES!  I've never been a huge fan of tamales - that is, until I tasted Santa Barbara Tamales To Go!  I was lucky enough to have won 12  SB Tamales at a business networking meeting.  The owner couldn't have been nicer or more accommodating.  There are 6 varieties of tamales.  We invited our good friends over, and tried five of the 6 options. My husband picked them up, and they arrived home piping hot, and color coded, with instructions on how to reheat or store them.  No need for that - the four of us ate every last tamale!  It'd be hard to say which tamale I liked most: Pork, Chicken Verde, or Farmer's Market.  We all agreed they were the most fantastic tamales ever.  No heavy, doughy corn masa; these tamales are light, fresh, perfectly seasoned and flavorful.  Two thumbs waaay up!  Highly recommended."}]}