{"name": "Fat Mo's Burgers", "address": "6558 Pardall Rd", "city": "Isla Vista", "state": "CA", "categories": "Burgers, Restaurants", "hours": {"Monday": "14:0-22:30", "Tuesday": "14:0-22:30", "Wednesday": "14:0-22:30", "Thursday": "14:0-23:0", "Friday": "14:0-23:0", "Saturday": "14:0-23:0", "Sunday": "14:0-22:30"}, "attributes": {"BusinessParking": null, "RestaurantsReservations": null, "OutdoorSeating": true, "WiFi": null, "RestaurantsTakeOut": true, "RestaurantsGoodForGroups": null, "Music": null, "Ambience": null}, "business_stars": 2.0, "review_info": [{"review_stars": 1.0, "review_date": "2013-11-14 04:20:32", "review_text": "Food might be good, but it literally took them over 20 minutes to make my burgee.  Considering a combo costs like $15 I would expect it to at least not tale 1/2 an hour to get my food.  I won't be coming back."}, {"review_stars": 2.0, "review_date": "2012-08-13 05:35:42", "review_text": "Everything is fried and generic ala Cisco. The milk tea (with boba) is pretty weak, I used to go here often, but everything just kept getting weaker and weaker. Consistency isn't this place's strong point."}, {"review_stars": 1.0, "review_date": "2012-04-23 03:40:51", "review_text": "I went in yesterday, on a Saturday night. I ordered a veggie burger, sweet potato fries and some boba tea.\nThey had 1 person at the register and 1 person in the back as cook. \nThe person at the register did not seem like she belonged in a costumer service job.\nAs a costumer I felt as though she was doing me a favor by taking my order. I felt as though I was making her job harder by ordering something unusual, a veggie burger with sweet potato fries. Besides taking my order, she was also answering the phones and setting up internet deliveries. It took me a good 4-5 minutes to just place my order. Being a new costumer, I was also expected to know how to order from their menu. Overall, the person at the register was not very helpful, she was slow, it seemed like she had too much on her plate and was unprepared to meet the needs of the job. \nThe cook in the back seemed like a nice guy, but he did not seem very eager to help the person in the front. Once I placed my order, he went ahead and started to work on my order, in what seemed like a snail's pace. I appreciated the fact that the sweet potato fries where freshly cooked and prepared, but it was frustrating to see the cook take a good 5 mins to slowly cut the fries. \nThe kitchen seemed to be in disarray, none of the employees had hairnets, nor did they seem all that interested in the safety of the food. Cook came to the front a couple of times, touched his face, handled the phone, but did not wash his hands before starting to cook. \nI had ordered a Boba tea, and unfortunately they where out of the one I wanted. I could give them a pass on a missing flavor of tea, but while I was waiting I saw other costumers asking for other items or options in their menu, only to find out that they where out of that particular item. It seems the restaurant has problems ordering enough inventory to serve their costumer! Perhaps they should consider offering less options and just focusing on having their basic menu items there 100% of the time. \nWhile I was there, I spent nearly 30 mins waiting for my Veggie Burger. They gave me my Boba tea first, then while I was halfway done with it, they served me my sweet potato fries, then finally after I had slowly finished all of my fries, they finally served me my veggie burger, and boy was I disappointed. The owner needs to put more love in that burger. I could tell the bun was pretty bad quality, the kind I could expect to buy at a grocery store off the discount isle. I could tell they did not even bother to put the buns on the grill, they just served it straight out of the bag. \nOn top of that, for a veggie burger which is just as expensive as a meat burger, they didnt bother to put any better or higher quality ingredients to make up for the lack of meat. Usually one would expect to get better quality out of the bun, patty or add ons on the burger, things like avocado, spinach or more higher quality veggies. Or on the other hand, one usually expects the veggie burger to be cheaper, but in this case the burger was just as expensive as the regular burger, and made with what seemed the cheapest ingredients possible. \nIt had ketchup, lettuce, tomatoes, onions and mayo. That was it, no cheese, no avocado, no fancy lettuce. The only part of it that was appetizing was the veggie patty. So after waiting for 30 mins, I got a poor excuse of a burger. I coulve gotten a better jesus burger from Real Life in IV, they at least cook it with love. \nI dont understand the point of getting a lower quality burger from this place, when the competition can offer faster service, higher quality and better prices.\n\nOverall I would place most of the blame on either the restaurant manager or on the owner.\nOrdering inventory, training personnel, ensuring food safety standards are met and staffing enough people to provide the service are all his or her responsibility. \nWhat I saw on that one visit tells me all I need to know about the restaurant.\n\nI give this place 1 star."}]}