Tonee Turner, 22: Pittsburgh Artist Last Seen At Local Tea Room In 2019
The worried family of Tonee Turner has been pounding the pavement daily since she went missing on December 30, 2019. The Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, artist's family has gone door-to-door, passing out flyers hoping someone will remember running into the missing 22-year-old.
The last place she was seen was Dobra Tea, a tea room in the city, but since then, her loved ones haven't been able to contact her. According to NamUs, Tonee's sister said she spoke to her around 6:00 p.m. the day she went missing. Tonee worked as a metal fabricator at Studebaker Metals, but she also was employed as a part-time ceramics teacher at the Braddock Carnegie Libray, which was just five miles away from Dobra Tea.
Tonee's Belongings Located, But The Mystery Remains
According to reports, a man riding his bike discovered Tonee's purse near a bridge. Inside were her mobile phone, wallet, and keys. Authorities believe there's a chance she may have traveled on Interstate 80 near Homestead, Pennsylvania, where the belongings were found.
“All the information people are giving and all the flyering, I just feel so blessed that Tonee has touched so many lives that people are so passionate to continue to find her and the belief that Tonee is going to come today, every today is so tangible and palpable,” Sydnee Turner, Tonee’s sister shared with KDKA.
Tonee Turner: What To Know
Tonee Turner is described as being 5 feet 3 inches tall and weighing 130 pounds. She has black or dark brown hair that's chin-length and brown eyes. She has multiple piercings: ears, nose, and labret (under bottom lip). Tonee also has a tattoo of a spiral pattern on her left shoulder. She was last seen wearing a black zip-up jacket, a gray shirt with the words "Habla Espanol" written in orange letters on the back, gray-colored cargo pants, and possibly a black head wrap.
Anyone with information regarding this case is urged to contact the Pittsburgh Police at 412-323-7800 or their local authorities immediately. The agency case number is 19-264396.
Please share this story to help reunite Tonee Turner with her family. She is our sister, and her life matters.
[via][via][via][via]