Texas Border: Drugs Worth $12M Seized in Just 3 Days
Federal Agents have had a productive October in the ongoing battle against drug smuggling along the Texas - Mexico border. Over the course of three days, they seized more than 12 million dollars worth of dope in multiple cases at International Bridges into the state.
The largest load of dope represented their hottest case - literally. In Pharr, U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Officers inspecting a tractor-trailer loaded with jalapenos from Mexico found it was also carrying a load of methamphetamine --- a big one.
CBP Officers found packages of meth buried under all those hot peppers, so they began tossing the meth in buckets. By the time the entire trailer of jalapenos had been searched, they filled 72 buckets with 9,426 packages of methamphetamine weighing 1,205.48 pounds. That added up to $10.7 million dollars worth of dope lost by one of the Mexican Cartels.
In El Paso, CBP officers working at the Bridge of the Americas and the Paso Del Norte International Bridge found more than 100 pounds of cocaine and methamphetamine in three separate foiled smuggling attempts in less than an hour. The drugs were found concealed in several different compartments including the one shown above. Others were hidden in car seats - as shown below.
One smuggler managed to squeeze the large load shown below into vehicle seats!
These three seizures together added up to about $700,000 worth of drugs.
Finally, CBP officers at the Gateway International Bridge in Brownsville also made a significant seizure while inspecting a van driving into Texas from Mexico.
Officers discovered 93 packages hidden within the vehicle containing 100.81 pounds of methamphetamine with a street value of $927,038.
For those keeping score that's more than $12 million dollars worth of cocaine and methamphetamine found at three International Bridges in Texas over three days in five different busts which resulted in six arrests.
-Just another week along the border.
Do you believe enough is being done to secure the Texas Border with Mexico?
Share your opinions in the comments to this article.
Want more stories like this? Be sure to "like" this article and follow me on theNewsbreak app!
Other stories by Jack Beaversabout Texas Border issues include:
Texas Border: Lawmen Killed on Both Sides of Rio Grande
Texas Border: Tennessee Troops Deploy
Texas Border: Cartel Gunfights & Smuggling Busts
Texas Border: Lawmen Killed on Both Sides of Rio Grande
Texas Buses 58K Migrants to Sanctuary Cities
Make Money Writing For Newsbreak!APPLY HERE