Troops from Two Texas Bases Deploy to Middle East
The Pentagon has confirmed that U.S. Army troops from Fort Cavazos in Killeen are joining Texas soldiers from Fort Bliss in El Paso in deploying to the Middle East to protect U.S. troops there from drone and rocket attacks.
The soldiers from the two Texas bases are among 900 U.S. troops being sent to the Middle East in the wake of at least 12 attacks against U.S. and coalition troops in Iraq and four attacks in Syria in the last week. Another attack on Thursday was unsuccessful. The Pentagon says 21 U.S. forces have suffered minor injuries in those attacks, the vast majority of them traumatic brain injuries.
Most of the soldiers from Fort Bliss will be manning a Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) System. THAAD is capable of intercepting ballistic missiles both inside and outside the atmosphere. The Pentagon won't say how many soldiers from Fort Bliss are deploying, but it's known that it takes nearly 100 Soldiers to staff a THAAD battery.
The rest of the soldiers from Fort Bliss will join the soldiers from Fort Cavazos as "air defense headquarters elements." The number of these soldiers is unknown.
The remainder of the 900 soldiers being deployed are attached to Patriot batteries from Fort Sill, Oklahoma, and Patriot and Avenger batteries from Fort Liberty, North Carolina.
"While I won't talk specific deployment locations for these forces, I can confirm that they are not going to Israel and that again, they are intended to support regional deterrence efforts and further bolster U.S. force protection capabilities." -Air Force Brigadier General Pat Ryder / Department of Defense Spokesperson
Want more Texas stories like this? Be sure to "like" this article and follow me on theNewsbreak app!
Other stories by Jack Beaversabout Texas issues include:
I knew Fort Cavazos' Namesake - I wish you could have met him
Los Kineños: Hispanic heart of nation's largest ranch
Did Texas Just Invade Mexico? Seizure of Cartel Island Questioned
South Texas: $2 Million Worth of Drugs Wash Ashore (Again!)
Jovita Idár: Bravest Texas Woman You Never Knew
Make Money Writing For Newsbreak!APPLY HERE