Grant worth $20,000 in marketing services taking applications until Oct. 31
NATIONWIDE – Elle Marketing Events is offering a marketing services grant worth $20,000 to small business owners.
Accepting applications until October 31, Elle Marketing Events says their grant offers high-level consulting and support for businesses ready to embrace growth opportunities.
According to data from Litmus, a well-executed email campaign can yield an average return on investment of $36 per $1 spent. Marketing plays a crucial role in helping small businesses increase their visibility, attract customers, and foster brand loyalty.
This ultimately contributes to growth and success.
Grant for Growth
Elle Marketing Events says their grant program combines consulting, strategy development, design, content creation, and implementation to provide recipients with everything they need to achieve exceptional growth for their small businesses in 2023 and beyond.
In addition to the marketing services valued at $20,000, three additional consulting grants will be provided valued at $500 each.
“I love the entrepreneurial community. Having the right people around you is essential to growing a successful business to the next level. Being someone who was guided, mentored, inspired, and uplifted by great people in my own business journey, it only makes sense to pay it forward now!” said Elle Marketing Events owner and principal strategist Lydia Martinez.
RELATED: Up to $25K Grants for Underrepresented Biz Owners - Apply Now!
Eligibility
Eligibility requirements include:
Be the primary business owner, decision-maker, and operator;
Be based in the United States;
Have at least two years of business history.
The grant application is open from October 9, 2023, at 6:00 am MT to October 31, 2023, at 11:45 pm MT. The winner of the $20,000 grant will be notified by November 1, 2023, and the $500 consulting grant winners will also be announced on the same date.
To view the full eligibility requirements and to apply visit: https://ellemarketingandevents.com/salt-city-grant-for-growth/