Millions Wasted by Arizona Agency on Luxury CEO Super Bowl Trips; AG Asked to Investigate
Arizona Attorney General Kris Mayes has been asked to investigate the possibility of significant wasted money from a state agency that reportedly spent millions on luxury trips for CEOs to the Super Bowl.
The attorney general is being asked to review whether or not the gifts violated the state constitution's prohibition on state agencies giving gifts to businesses, citing the agency's failure to properly ensure the gifts created opportunities for growth in Arizona.
Luxury Trips to Super Bowl and Waste Management Open Given to CEOs
According to a newly released report, auditors from the state of Arizona are asking Attorney General Kris Mayes to open an investigation into the Arizona Commerce Authority (ACA) after the state agency reportedly gave millions of dollars worth of luxury trips to CEOs, possibly in violation of the state constitution.
The ACA reportedly paid for around $2.1 million worth of luxury trips to Super Bowl LVII and the Waste Management Open to CEOs under the guise of attempting to sway the businesses into providing either expansion in Arizona or moving their companies to the state.
The CEOs got essentially every expense covered during their trips to the Super Bowl, with luxuries ranging from hotel rooms and transportation to food, alcohol, and high-value seats at the Super Bowl.
The ACA has said that the organized CEO forums are designed to lure businesses to the state, as well as provide education to them about the opportunities presented in Arizona.
However, auditors are concerned about whether or not the gifts violate Article 9, Section 7 of the Arizona Constitution, which prohibits the government and government agencies from providing such gifts without the expectation of investment.
And thus far, the ACA has reportedly been unable to provide documentation that the forums created any new jobs in the state.
“The ACA’s lack of documentation to show that it verified businesses met job and capital investment requirements before approving tax credits and distributing grant monies increases the risk of fraud and waste of public monies,” auditors said, per AZ Mirror. “Specifically, businesses could submit fraudulent employment and wage information, thereby making the ACA more susceptible to fraud and waste of public monies.”
Attorney General Mayes' office says that they have begun investigating the matter.
At DailyNewsNow we bring you the latest news from the West Coast and around the country, covering a wide range of topics from politics and campaign news to entertainment and local interest stories. Please feel free to share the story with friends and join the conversation in the comments below!