'Bold and the Beautiful' Star Annika Noelle Claps Back At Thomas and Hope Haters
The Bold and the Beautiful (B&B) star Annika Noelle addresses the Thope (Thomas Forrester and Hope Logan) hater in an Instagram story. She Knows Soaps reports the star hoped on Instagram to let her fans know she is an actress with no control over the current storylines.
Thomas Forrester (Matthew Atkinson) and Hope Logan (Annika Noelle) have developed a huge following on social media. The B&B viewers have strong opinions on how Hope should treat Thomas and which man she could be with.
One poster asked Noelle if she felt like a hypocrite for supporting Thope because she is a staunch supporter of women's rights. The question led the actress to respond to the question and put the haters on notice.
"Hi there, my name is Annika. I'm a professional actor who is paid to say what is written for me in a script and promote such work. Rain or shine. Whether or not we agree with the story or our character's choices. I am not going to only support one fan base over another or get involved in social media wars. If you want to know what I stand for, I make it very clear on my personal Instagram. Believe that," the actress shares in an Instagram story.
"I am not my character. I am not my show," Noelle explained. "My job as an actor is to find motivation for my character and make it as genuine as possible."
The Bold and the Beautiful actress goes on to say that actors cannot change the storyline. Instead, her job is to make the storyline believable and real.
Noelle told her fans that she adores all her fans and doesn't care what couple the viewers "ship." She appreciates everyone who takes time out of their day to watch B&B and hopes they continue to watch the show and enjoy the storylines.
B&B fans, do you agree with Annika Noelle's comments? Keep watching The Bold and the Beautiful, airing weekdays on CBS and streaming on Paramount Plus. Please share your thoughts with me in the comments section below. Remember to follow me to read more of my content.