A Blackburg, Virginia toddler has already won 60 races
Many people who participate in long distance races are usually much older than . a toddler in Blackburg, Virginia who has already won 60 races before she turned three years old.
About Olivia Hawes
Needless to say, Olivia Hawes started running much earlier than most people. Olivia loves to play and run around like most toddlers. However, few toddles are able to run and complete 5K races. In fact, the little girl has finished dozens of 5K’s, 8K’s and even a 9K race.
Olivia's mom reaction
Olivia’s mom, Angel Hawes, explained that her daughter was walking at eight months and running before she turned a year old.
Angel added this about her toddler:
“Nothing about raising Olivia is like expected. She is out there smiling, excited to run, and you see pictures from race days and she is all smiles.”
Olivia’s parents entered Olivia into the Virginia Commonwealth Games when she was only 18 months old.
Angel continued to explain:
“They had never had someone under five compete in the Virginia Commonwealth Games, and so we took her to that and she loved it. The crowd ate it up, halfway through the 50 meters, the crowd went insane because I don’t think they expected her to actually do it.”
Since Olivia has won so many games, fans began calling her "Olympic Olivia." The nickname has stuck. See Olympic Olivia in action and the piles of her medals in the video below.
Olympic Olivia gives her all in every competition, and she gets better with each race. According to her mother, her first 5K was an hour and 10 minutes, and then her last one was under 38 minutes. Olympic Olivia loves hearing the crowds cheering for her, and she loves getting those medals.
What's next for Olympic Olivia?
Her parents are prepared to make the commitment to get their daughter to the Olympics if that's what the child wants when she gets older. As of now, Olympic Olivia is working to qualify for next summer’s junior Olympics in Charlotte. Until then, she will keep training at Virginia Tech’s track and running in local races.