Shh—We Found Amazon's Best Prime Day Deals
This post contains affiliate links.
With Amazon Prime Big Deals Days just around the corner on October 10 and 11, you may be holding off on big Amazon purchases. But loads of the best deals are already secretly live.
Need a free Amazon Prime membership? Here's how to score one.
A few of our favorite early Prime Big Deal Days sales happening now:
Lottabody Curl Mousse: Under $4 (50% off)
Curly and wavy-haired types call this bestselling curl mouse a "total lifesaver" and "better than the expensive stuff."
With roughly 30,000 user ratings and nearly-perfect reviews, we're excited to add this one to cart in multiples.
BISSELL CleanView Upright Bagless Vacuum: $106 (10% off)
Over 71,000 glowing ratings make this popular swiveling Bissell vacuum a brilliant buy. While 10% off may not seem like a game-changing deal, this model seldom gets marked down. And we expect it to sell out in a matter of days, so if you want one—jump on it.
It makes cleaning around furniture and other obstacles easy. A triple-action brush roll loosens, lifts and removes embedded pet hair.
isotoner Terry Hoodback Clog Slippers: $24 (20% off)
Available in loads of colors and women's sizes 6 through 10, these bestselling cozy slippers seldom go on sale. Hurry up and add them to your cart now though, because popular sizes and colors are bound to sell out.
We love the added arch and sole support, cushy fabric and added foam. They're ideal for wearing around the house, working from home or running down the driveway.
Eddie Bauer Reversible Sherpa Fleece Throw: $15 (55% off)
Choose from a variety of soft neutral shades and then get ready to snuggle! This cozy-season favorite has soft machine-washable sherpa on one side and a minky pattern on the other.
It's the ideal living room or bedroom throw, and a fun topper for a toddler mattress.
PURA D'OR Apple Cider Vinegar Thin2Thick Set: $29.99 (25% off)
Thin hair is no match for the impressive PURA D'OR Apple Cider Vinegar Thin2Thick Set. It harnesses the power of real apple cider vinegar, biotin, keratin and caffeine to invigorate the scalp and encourage a thick, vibrant appearance.
It's ideal for adults with all hair types and leaves a great shine behind after use.
Love these deals or have your ideas to share? Leave a comment below!