Shaquitta Booker, 32: Last Seen Leaving A Hospital
,
There are a surprising number of cases involving women whose last known location was a medical facility, much like Shaquitta Booker. For weeks, loved ones have been tirelessly searching for the 32-year-old Chicago woman. According to reports, Shaquitta was last seen at the St. Bernard Hospital in the Windy City on August 11, 2023. However, her mother, Latrice Booker, told NBC Chicago that she didn’t even know why her daughter was there.
“She left there, and I don’t know why she was there,” she told the news outlet. “I cannot get an answer,” Latrice added. “I have been to multiple hospitals, North Side and South Side of Chicago, and leaving fliers with the ER. I’m just worried. She is off her meds, and when she’s off her meds, she don’t think. She is vulnerable.”
It was noted that Shaquitta Booker was diagnosed with a mental health condition three years ago. It is unclear what that was at this time. However, this diagnosis does not mean Shaquitta does not need help or hasn’t met with foul play. Investigators are considering all options.
Further, when Shaquitta went missing, she was living with her mother. It is known if any personal items were also missing. Latrice prays her daughter is found safe and returns home soon where she can get the medical and pharmaceutical help she may need.
At the time of her disappearance, Shaquitta Booker stood 5 feet 5 inches tall and weighed 125 – 140 pounds. Her eyes are brown and her hair is described as “sandy,” but it also looks brown. Shaquitta has a keloid on her left ear. She was last seen wearing a white t-shirt, black leggings, a black hooded sweatshirt, and back sandals.
Anyone with information about this case is urged to contact the Chicago Police Department – Area South at (312) 747-5789 or their local authorities. The agency case number is JG-384081.
Please share this story about Shaquitta Booker to ignite interest in her missing person case. She is our sister, and her life matters.