Longtime Tribal Leader Launches Bid to Unseat Arizona Republican
A longtime tribal leader for the Navajo Nation in Arizona announced this week that he would be launching a campaign to try and unseat House Republican Eli Crane in 2024, citing the chaos that has been created in the House in part by the ousting of Speaker Kevin McCarthy.
Now, former Navajo Nation President Jonathan Nez will attempt to take over Arizona's 2nd Congressional District from Crane, running a campaign that highlights his upbringing in a rural low-income area and emphasizing his role as an outsider in D.C. politics.
Former Navajo President Launches Congressional Campaign
Former Navajo Nation President Jonathan Nez announced Monday in a post to X, the social media site formerly known as Twitter, that he is launching his campaign for Arizona's 2nd Congressional District in 2024, taking on Republican Eli Crane.
In his announcement, Nez says that he is launching his campaign in order to address the chaos that has been created in Congress recently, while also highlighting his own upbringing in a low-income area and his perspective as a D.C. outsider.
“I grew up in a rural low-income home without electricity or running water,” Nez said. “I understand the struggles the second-district families are facing right now. From the rising costs of food, gas, and childcare, to increasingly devastating wildfires, and healthcare deserts. And, above all, a sense that their elected representatives don’t care about them — that DC politicians have left them behind.”
Nez, who is running as a Democrat, pointed to the current chaos in the House of Representatives caused by the ousting of then-Speaker Kevin McCarthy with no clear successor lined up to restart the chamber's business.
“The last straw is what is happening now in Congress,” Nez said to The Arizona Republic. “We have got a war against Hamas in Israel. We have a war in Ukraine right now. But the House of Representatives can’t do anything unless there is a Speaker.”
Crane was one of eight Republicans who voted to oust McCarthy, leaving the Speaker of the House vacant.