Gaza Crying for Help: Why Isn't Egypt Offering Refuge Amid Israeli Strikes?
As Israeli military aircraft strike Gaza, sabotaging constructions in response to the Hamas’ shock attack at the music fest last weekend, Egypt becomes concerned that Israeli bombardments will drive displacement.
Egypt closed the Rafah Border Crossing, which is the main point of exit to the outside world for Gazans after the Israeli assault.
Fatalities Rise Above 1,500!
After the Hamas attack, Israel’s leadership has recurrently advised civilians to abscond the region while they still can, before the Israel government unleashes the complete power of the military in the land.
The death toll after Israeli air strikes. The only practical exit is the Rafah Border Crossing into Egypt, but Egypt is keeping it inflexibly closed.
Israel Says It has Dropped 6000 Bombs on Gaza
President el-Sisi urges Gazans to stay in their land
Israel forces ahead with a brutal siege that is swiftly intensifying into an awful humanitarian crisis. President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi said on Thursday in response to growing calls that the people of Gaza must “stay steadfast” and that they should “remain on their land”.
It is noted that this was President el-Sisi’s response not only to the Gazans but also to the American officials when they pleaded with Cairo to permit a secure course for civilians fleeing Gaza.
Will the UN be able to evacuate 1,100,000 residents?
Israel cut down the electric supply and barred food, fuel, and water supplies from entering Gaza after proclaiming a "complete siege" of the commune, which had already been under a stringent Israeli restriction, supported by Egypt, for the last sixteen years. More than 263,900 people have been displaced in Gaza since the 2023 war began.
Israel has told the UN to move 1.1 million residents out of north Gaza within 24 hours, as 27 Americans died as a result of the war. Biden has claimed to have told he told Benjamin Netanyahu that with all the rage and frustration, it is vital that Israel acts according to the rules of war in its operations in Gaza.