50K Migrants Bused to Sanctuary Cities by Governor Abbott
Operation Lone Star reached a milestone under Texas Governor Greg Abbott. In the spring of 2022, Governor Abbott began busing migrants to Washington, D.C., and other sanctuary cities. This past week, the number of migrants bussed reached 50,000.
According to Governor Abbott, he has bussed migrants to the following cities.
Over 12,500 migrants to Washington, D.C. since April 2022
Over 18,500 migrants to New York City since August 2022
Over 13,500 migrants to Chicago since August 2022
Over 3,200 migrants to Philadelphia since November 2022
Over 3,200 migrants to Denver since May 18
Over 940 migrants to Los Angeles since June 14
Governor Abbott said according to a press release:
“Texas will also pass laws to mirror the federal immigration laws President Joe Biden refuses to enforce that will reduce illegal immigration and enhance the safety of Texans.”
“For the first time ever, Texas will subject people to arrest for illegal entry into our state from a foreign nation. All licensed law enforcement officers in Texas will be authorized to arrest or remove any person who illegally enters the State, with penalties up to 20 years in prison for refusing to comply with removal. To crack down on repeated attempts to enter Texas illegally, re-entry will be penalized with up to 20 years in prison.”
Department of Public Safety Lieutenant Chris Olivarez was interviewed by NewsMax and added the dangers of the Mexican cartel:
“We’ve been talking about it for years, that’s why we have to look at it as a much broader issue than just immigration.”
“We need to focus on the threats, not only to public safety but with a national security aspect and how close these cartels are operating to Texas. It validates every single piece of evidence of how these cartels are operating, not only in Mexico but in the United States, especially in Texas.”
Mexico President Obrador believes more migrants will make their way to the southern border. It’s very likely Governor Abbott will continue to bus migrants to sanctuary cities.
How many migrants do you think Governor Abbott will bus by the end of the year?