Chicago Leaders Feel the White House Does Not Understand the Migrant Crisis
Since last year when Texas Governor Greg Abbott began bussing migrants to Chicago, this has brought more confusion to City leaders. In addition, the money supply continues to drain the City’s budget.
This caused Illinois Governor J.B. Pritzker to take immediate action and bring the concern to President Joe Biden in the month of October.
Migrants were homeless and living in public areas such as Chicago police stations and the Chicago O’Hare Airport.
With migrants crossing the southern border in large numbers, more buses with migrants made their way to Chicago.
On Tuesday, October 3, 10 buses with migrants arrived to add to the 17,000 migrants the City supports according to ABC 7.
With Governor Pritzker and Mayor Brandon Johnson working together, they want more support from the federal government. Additionally, Mayor Johnson wants more notification from Governor Abbott on the bus arrivals.
Mayor Johnson said according to ABC 7:
"What we are calling for, and what we have said, repeatedly, is we need to have better coordination with every single level of government, and that includes the state of Texas."
On Monday, October 2, Governor Pritzker’s letter went to President Biden addressing what Chicago needs including work authorizations similar to what President Biden recently passed to support Venezuelan immigrants. Additionally, he asked for a coordinated effort along the southern border.
President Biden has not officially coordinated with Governor Abbot as the two have not come to an understanding of the crisis. That is why Governor Abbott began bussing migrants over a year ago to Washington, D.C.
White House spokesperson Angelo Fernández Hernández didn’t provide a solution to Chicago’s request but said according to CNN:
“Without the help of Congress, the administration has been taking action. Meanwhile, House Republicans continue to block the reform the immigration system needs and the $4 billion we requested to address the immediate needs of DHS to safely and humanely manage the Southwest Border and support communities across the country. We will continue to work closely with Illinois and states and cities across the country.”
Do you think the White House understands the migrant crisis?