NYC Taxpayers Will Have To Cover Kathy Hochul's War-Time Emergency Trip To Israel
On Thursday, the office of New York Governor Kathy Hochul stated that taxpayers will foot the bill for her recent trip to war-torn Israel. This is a 180-degree turn from the previous plan, in which a nonprofit was intended to foot the bill but has not yet received approval from a state ethics panel.
Last week, the Democratic governor traveled around Israel and met with authorities and families affected by the violence, accompanied by a small group of staff members and state police.
Hochul's administration had simply stated that a nonprofit organization had promised to pay and that an ethics tribunal was looking into the arrangement, evading repeated questions about who was paying for the trip.
The Taxpayers At The End
Speaking on Thursday, Hochul spokesperson Avi Small stated that since the ethics board hasn't officially decided on the charity organization, the state will cover the cost of the trip instead. He claimed the UJA-Federation, an organization that has funded elected leaders' trips to Israel in the past, was originally supposed to cover the cost of the trip.
According to Small, the governor's and her staff's lodging, meals, and travel totaled almost $12,000 for the visit.
According to a spokesman for the state Commission on Ethics and Lobbying in Government, they are prohibited from commenting by state law.
Even Though She Is Not Involved In International Matters Still She Went on The Trip
As governor, Hochul is not directly involved in international matters; yet, she justified the trip by stating that it was her way of supporting the Israeli people in the midst of the conflict. Outside of Israel, the largest Jewish population resides in New York.
According to Blair Horner, executive director of the New York Public Interest Research Group, Hochul ought to have obtained approval from state ethics regulators for the trip in order to make sure the nonprofit had no connections to the state's business community or other relationships that would give rise to ethical concerns.