Governor Abbott Gets a Win as Judge Halts Border Agents Removing Wire
Governor Greg Abbott can thank President George W. Bush as one of his legal appointees supports a Texas issue. This comes after Attorney General Ken Paxton sued the Biden administration last week. U.S. Customs and Border Patrol agents were cutting concertina wire allowing migrants to freely cross the southern border.
On Monday, October 30, District Judge Alia Moses, granted Paxton’s request he filed last Tuesday.
Judge Moses said according to The Texas Tribune:
“The Court shall grant the temporary relief requested, with one important exception for any medical emergency that mostly likely results in serious bodily injury or death to a person, absent any boats or other life-saving apparatus available to avoid such medical emergencies prior to reaching the concertina wire barrier.”
The move by Moses is only temporary until November 13. Paxton’s office and the Biden administration will present their arguments over the concertina wire on November 7.
According to ABC News, Texas states border agents were "cutting, destroying, or otherwise damaging Texas’s concertina wire that had been strategically positioned for the purpose of securing the border and stemming the flow of illegal migration."
Texas states border agents cut through the wire allowing migrants to freely enter Texas.
In a statement, Paxton said according to CBS News:
“By acting quickly and monitoring their actions closely, we were able to secure a restraining order, and I am confident we will continue to prevail."
The Biden administration said the wire was cut so they could provide medical aid to migrants.
The Department of Homeland Security added according to CBS News:
"[Border agents] have a responsibility under federal law to take those who have crossed onto U.S. soil without authorization into custody for processing, as well as to act when there are conditions that put our workforce or migrants at risk."
How do you think the judge will rule on this case?