New Ballpark In Same Bad Location Won’t Solve Tampa Bay’s Chronic Attendance Problems
By Dan Schlossberg
The Tampa Bay Rays now have the winter to wonder why they bounced out of the post-season so quickly — and why so few fans showed up to support them.
They’ve announced plans to build a new $1.3 billion ballpark, which is the good news, but foolishly agreed to build it in the same St. Petersburg location that makes rush-hour commuting to night games difficult if not impossible.
Only 19,704 fans showed up to the first game of the American League Wild-Card Series. It was the worst total in an uninterrupted season since 1919 (that’s no typo).
The Rays revived this year, adding power to their performance, and nearly won 100 games. They have a .586 winning percentage and a World Series performance over the past six years.
Yet attendance has been such an issue that the team actually played three official games at Disney World’s Champions Stadium, which holds only 11,000 when full.
The idea to make the Rays a regional team is not new; ownership even floated the concept of splitting “home” games between Tampa Bay and Montreal, provided a stadium could be built to replace The Big O.
With the possible exception of the Oakland Alameda County Coliseum — or whatever the A’s call their moribund ballpark — Tropicana Field is far and away the worst facility in the major leagues. And we did mention where it is? As Greg Maddux might say, ‘Location, location, location.’
The Rays are always a solid team but have averaged only 20,000 per game since 2010.
Isn’t that enough of a sample size for anyone to the team plays in a bad park in a bad location?
Time is not the issue either. Consider the crowds at other afternoon playoff games:
The Braves drew 42,461 to Windy Hill for Game 1 of their 2022 NLDS game, which started at 1 o’clock on a Tuesday afternoon. And getting to Truist Park by mass transportation is a pain in the you-know-what.
Earlier this week, the Minnesota Twins attracted 38,450 for their Wild Card game at 3:30 in the afternoon. Even manager Rocco Baldelli noticed, saying, “The fans took over and helped us win the game.”
After a 99-win season, the Rays won the battle but not the war. Before they start digging the foundations of their new edifice, they need to find a viable location.
Otherwise, their problems will continue — especially after the novelty of the new place wears off in a year or two.
Former AP sportswriter Dan Schlossberg of Fair Lawn, NJ is weekend editor of Here’s The Pitch and national baseball writer for forbes.com. His email is ballauthor@gmail.com.