Texas Buses 50,000+ Migrants To Sanctuary Cities
Texas has now bused more than 50,000+ migrants to self-described "sanctuary cities."
Since the launch of Operation Lone Star, Governor Greg Abbott's efforts have led to over 473,900 illegal immigrant apprehensions and more than 34,800 criminal arrests, with more than 31,800 felony charges filed. Texas has bused:
Over 12,500 migrants to Washington, D.C. since April 2022
Over 18,500 migrants to New York City since August 2022
Over 13,500 migrants to Chicago since August 2022
Over 3,200 migrants to Philadelphia since November 2022
Over 3,200 migrants to Denver since May 18
Over 940 migrants to Los Angeles since June 14
Texas will continue to provide vital relief to overwhelmed border towns that bear the brunt of Biden's border crisis. -Texas Governor Greg Abbott
Texas Governor Greg Abbott plans to increase the pressure on "sanctuary cities" and pass stronger state laws to deal with illegal immigration into the state when he convenes another Special Session of the State Legislature on Monday:
“Texas will also pass laws to mirror the federal immigration laws President Joe Biden refuses to enforce that will reduce illegal immigration and enhance the safety of Texans,”
“For the first time ever, Texas will subject people to arrest for illegal entry into our state from a foreign nation. All licensed law enforcement officers in Texas will be authorized to arrest or remove any person who illegally enters the State, with penalties up to 20 years in prison for refusing to comply with removal. To crack down on repeated attempts to enter Texas illegally, re-entry will be penalized with up to 20 years in prison.” -Texas Governor Greg Abbott
Governor Abbott vows to continue busing migrants to so-called "sanctuary cities:"
"Texas has bused over 50,000 migrants to sanctuary cities to provide relief to overwhelmed border towns. These cities experience a fraction of what Texas border communities face daily. Busing will continue until Biden secures the border." -Texas Governor Greg Abbott
Do you support Texas Governor Greg Abbott's efforts to crack down on illegal immigration?
Share your opinions in the comments to this article.
Want more stories like this? Be sure to "like" this article and follow me on theNewsbreak app!
Other stories by Jack Beaversabout Texas Border issues include:
Migrants Plant Foreign Flag on Texas Soil
U.S. Soldiers vs. Mexican Cartels? Support for Military Action Grows
Cartels Shot Texans in Mexico by "Mistake"
Make Money Writing For Newsbreak!APPLY HERE