Meghan Markle’s latest Amazon endeavor is a 'Seriously Formidable' challenge
Although Meghan Markle's contract with Spotify has ended, the Duchess of Sussex is allegedly about to establish a new alliance with yet another major company.
The royal family is rumored to be close to finalizing a profitable agreement with Audible, an audiobook service offered by Amazon.
According to a source, "Word of mouth is spreading that it will lead to a huge payout - even bigger than the millions Spotify splashed out - and Meghan is thrilled that she'll be in the company of Michelle and Barack Obama."
The former US President and his wife's own agreement with Amazon from the previous year was mentioned by the insider.
They continued by stating that although Meghan appeared to be "very confident" at the time, the Duchess was reportedly in a "pretty desperate spot" in "reality."
Continuing: "She's been pretty lost since but this deal could turn everything around."
Furthermore, the insider stated that the Audible agreement might "make or break her Hollywood dream."
"She feels ready, but that doesn't mean this isn't seriously daunting," they added.
Following the cancellation of their podcast series Archetypes after just one season, Meghan and Prince Harry's Spotify partnership came to an end.
Before, the music streaming service and Sussex's business issued a statement together that said, "Spotify and Archewell Audio have mutually agreed to part ways and are proud of the series we made together."
According to the most recent sources, Meghan is still preparing "big plans" for her Hollywood comeback following Spotify.
In addition, her previous TV program Suits was gaining a lot of attention from new viewers and was just recently dethroned by Netflix's love drama Virgin River.
Because of Suits' ongoing appeal, there have been rumors of a potential television series taking place in the same universe.
Although Kelly Rowland, a friend of Meghan, recently claimed that the former actress was a royal before she wed into the British nobility.