Better weather until Friday before another rainy weekend, storm  system heads to the Eastern US
We continue to move along in a mode of slow improvement from day to day. We still have the upper trough covering the East Coast from north to south. The upper trough will start to shift eastward but we will still have to deal with sunshine which self destructs to some degree and clouds develop. Yesterday we saw pop up scattered showers. Today there could be the odd pop up shower or two but they will be widely scattered and I think most of you won't see any. As long as we have enough sunshine in the mix, highs will reach the upper 50s and lower 60s.
Skies should clear across Eastern Pennsylvania to Southern New England tonight and it will be chilly. Most lows will be in the 40s along with some 30s in the coldest spots well inland. Wednesday looks like a nice day with partly to mostly sunny skies. Highs Wednesday will be in the 60s area wide.
Thursday looks like it will be the best and warmest day of the week. High pressure to the southeast will create a warmer southwest flow of air. We should be far enough away from the next cold front to have mostly sunny skies Thursday. Highs Thursday will be in the mid to upper 60s and some warm spots could certainly touch 70 degrees or so.
Now we turn to Friday. Winds will become more southerly Friday and that will bring up moisture. We also have the cold front to our west and a developing low on that front that will start in the Carolinas and head northward up the east side of the Appalachians. This will lead to increasing clouds Friday with showery rains developing in some places Friday afternoon and evening. Not everyone will see rain during Friday dayside. Friday night into Saturday afternoon we will see showery rains especially during the day Saturday. Low pressure develops and strengthens as it heads northward into New England. Winds will shift to the northwest late Saturday into Saturday night. Some showers will linger on the back side Saturday night but they should be gone long before daybreak Sunday. Temperatures Saturday will be in the 60s before the front passes. Sunday will be a windy and colder day with leftover clouds and temperatures mostly in the 50s. There might be some scattered instability showers as we wait for the upper trough to pass. This will make it the 7th weekend in a row where it has rained on at least 1 of the 2 weekend days. Next week starts chilly but warms later in the week and we should see another 4 or 5 day stretch of no rain during the work week.