Texas Border: Migrants cross in large numbers despite dangers and razor-wire barriers
Texas troops assigned to Operation Lone Star continue to encounter large groups of migrants at the razor-wire barriers the state has installed on the banks of the Rio Grande as evidenced in the picture above provided by Governor Greg Abbott.
Despite the obstacles - and the dangers - migrants continue to cross the Rio Grande. The six-year-old Guatemalan child pictured above was unresponsive and suffering from hypothermia after crossing the Rio Grande with two adults on Tuesday, November 1, 2023.
A spokesperson for the Texas Department of Public Safety (DPS) says their troopers - along with Florida Highway Patrol Officers assigned to Operation Lone Star provided life-saving treatment and then immediately transported the child to Fort Duncan Regional Medical Center in Eagle Pass for further treatment.
And - as worrisome as the large groups of migrants being encountered along the Rio Grande in Texas are- it could get even worse.
Over the weekend, Tucson Sector Border Patrol Agents report encountering a group of migrants numbering more than 1,000 near San Miguel, Arizona. In all, their agents apprehended about 2,500 migrants during a single weekend.
Faced with those challenges, back in Texas, the Border Patrol is trying new ways to try and secure the Rio Grande. This week U.S. agents assigned to the Harlingen Station and Mexican officials conducted border security operations simultaneously & patrolled each side of the Rio Grande River.
It's hoped new approaches like this will help make this stretch of the river safer for officers and residents on both sides of the Texas-Mexico border.
Do you think joint U.S.-Mexican patrols along the Rio Grande could make the border safer?
Share your opinions in the comments to this article.
Want more stories like this? Be sure to "like" this article and follow me on theNewsbreak app!
Other stories by Jack Beaversabout Texas Border issues include:
Texas Border: Cartel Gunfights & Smuggling Busts
Texas Border: Stash House Raids Surge in October
Texas Buses 58K Migrants to Sanctuary Cities
Make Money Writing For Newsbreak!APPLY HERE