Rancho gets a title it may share
RANCHO ALAMITOS has won no worse than a tie for the Garden Grove League football title after its 21-14 win over Rancho Alamitos on Friday night (Orange County Tribune photo).
By Jim Tortolano /Orange County Tribune
The Garden Grove League football race was unusually frantic this year, with four of six teams in serious contention. But it all returned to form on Friday night at Bolsa Stadium when Rancho Alamitos defeated La Quinta 21-14 in what was essentially the game that decided the title, or at least a part of it.
The Vaqueros (6-3 overall and 3-1) has – in all likelihood – clinched at least a tie for the GGL crown, provided it defeats winless Loara next week. Counting the shared titles, Rancho has won six championships in a row.
“We played real solid tonight,” said Coach Mike Enright. “The coaches did a real good job making adjustments. One thing about our kids. They know how to win. We talk about playing like a champion, and that’s what we did tonight.”
La Quinta (6-3, 3-1) remains tied for first, and played the Vaqueros even – 14-14 – in the first half. The winning score came at 2:24 of the fourth quarter when Cruz Gonzalez burst in from four yards out to give the Vaqueros what proved to be the winning score. He carried the ball five times on that final drive.
A tri-championship is possible, as three teams – Rancho, La Quinta and Los Amigos – will go into the final league game of the season each with 3-1 marks.
In other games on Friday, two teams that used to be powerhouses of the Garden Grove League are continuing to have tough seasons. Pacifica (2-7 overall, 1-3 in the Empire League) lost 49-0 to Tustin and Garden Grove (2-7 overall and 0-2 in the Big 4 League) lost 31-14 to Segerstrom.
Westminster’s 28-0 win over Ocean View set up next week’s title clash with Laguna Beach for the Pac-4 title. The Lions are 7-2 overall and 2-0 in league; the Breakers are 8-1 and 2-0.
Los Alamitos (7-2, 4-0) thumped Huntington Beach 63-13 and will face Edison (5-3, 3-0) for the Sunset League crown.