Ford, UAW Strike Ends with 25% Raise
The AP is reporting that Ford and the United Auto Workers have reached an agreement that would end the six week long strike.
The deal, good for the next four years, still needs to be agreed upon by the nearly 60,000 Ford workers in the union.
So far the union is still on strike with the other big 3 car companies, GM and Stellantis.
With this tentative new deal in hand, UAW leadership has asked its people to go back to work. Presumably, this will put more pressure on the other companies.
UAW President Shawn Fain was happy with the results, “We told Ford to pony up, and they did. We won things no one thought possible.’ He added that Ford put 50% more money on the table than it did before the strike started on Sept. 15.”
Fain has been aggressive during the entire negotiation process despite many analysts saying the union’s demands were too high.
According to the AP, the deal would get the Ford workers a 25% pay bump that combined with the cost of living would set the increase to 30%.
This is nearly triple Ford’s initial offer of 9%. By the end of the contract top line workers will be making north of 40 dollars an hour.
“Thanks to the power of our members on the picket line and the threat of more strikes to come, we have won the most lucrative agreement per member since Walter Reuther was president,” said UAW Vice President Chuck Browning. Browning is referring to former UAW president Walter Reuther who was the head of the UAw from 1946 until 1970.
President Joe Biden, who visited the picket line and has backed the union from the start, commented on the tentative agreement in a statement, “I’ve always believed the middle class built America and unions built the middle class.”
He went on to say “This tentative agreement is a testament to the power of employers and employees coming together to work out their differences at the bargaining table in a manner that helps businesses succeed while helping workers secure pay and benefits they can raise a family on.”