Border Crisis: 60-year migrant records shattered
"Migrants were caught crossing the southern border of the U.S. more times in the past year than in any other year since at least 1960, when the government started keeping track of the data. It is the third record-setting year in a row." -New York Times, October 22, 2023
Against the backdrop of that news, here's a snapshot of events over the past few days along the Texas-Mexico border, to show you how things are going:
Rio Grande Valley Border Patrol Agents are encountering migrants in very large groups crossing into the state. The photo above of a group of 172 migrants was taken last week. Border Patrol Officers apprehended 2,344 migrants last week in the Rio Grande Valley alone.
Border Patrol Agents are also encountering migrants in large numbers when raiding so-called "stash houses" where human smugglers hold them until they can move them deeper into the state. Pictured above are 42 migrants found in El Paso motel rooms last week.
This unprecedented surge of illegal crossings has human smugglers moving larger "loads" of migrants through Texas. The photo above is of a group of 34 migrants found inside a travel trailer last week by local authorities and Border Patrol Agents in Willacy County.
If you can think of a way to move through South Texas, chances are you'll find migrants using it - like the freight train shown above in Uvalde. I've written about human smugglers using Texas trains before. You can read more about that HERE.
Of course, smugglers are moving more than migrants across the border into Texas. Rio Grande Valley agents report they seized two "loads" of marijuana and methamphetamines last week as well.
Is enough being done to prevent illegal crossings of the Rio Grande into Texas?
Share your opinions in the comments to this article.
Want more stories like this? Be sure to "like" this article and follow me on theNewsbreak app!
Other stories by Jack Beaversabout Texas Border issues include:
Texas Border: Lawmen Killed on Both Sides of Rio Grande
Texas Border: Tennessee Troops Deploy
Texas Border: Cartel Gunfights & Smuggling Busts
Texas Border: Stash House Raids Surge in October
Texas Buses 58K Migrants to Sanctuary Cities
Make Money Writing For Newsbreak!APPLY HERE