Israel pushes more into Gaza
PALESTINIANS transport the injured to the Indonesian Hospital in Jabalia, north of the Gaza Strip (Photo by Bashar Taleb apaimage/WIkipedia).
Israeli forces are pushing further into Gaza on Monday as thousand of Palestinians flew southward in the face of the “ground operations” moving toward Gaza City on the north and east of Gaza City.
Israeli military sources said that a female soldier who had been captured during the initial Oct. 7 attack by Hamas militants has been released.
New death tolls were released on Monday, although neither could be verified independently.
Palestinian deaths were put at 8,306 while over 1,400 people in Israel are said to have been killed.
Auto workers win strike vs. Big 3
The nationwide strike by the United Auto Workers union against Ford, General Motors and Stellantis (Chrysler) is over after a six-week work stoppage.
On Monday, GM and the UAW reached tentative agreement on a new labor contract. The agreement not only calls for raises and other improvements, but also could spur a major organizing push at non-union automaking operations in the U.S. owned by Tesla, Honda and BMW.
The hourly wage under the new contract will reach $40 an hour at the top of the pay scale, a rise from $32 per hour.
MacTavish leads Ducks to win
Mason McTavish scored two goals – including the game-winner – to lead the Anaheim Ducks to a 4-3 win over the Pittsburgh Penguins Monday at PPG Paints Arena.
McTavish scored the deciding goal with 13 seconds left to play. He also picked up an assist to go with his two tallies. The Ducks are now 5-4-0 with 10 goals, good for a tie for third place in the NHL Pacific Division.
The Los Angeles Lakers (2-2) defeated the Orlando Magic (2–1) by 106-103.
Weather: Our fair share of sun
We’re closing out October and starting November with a bit of sunshine. Tuesday is forecast for a daytime high of 88 and and overnight low of 54 under sunny skies. Wednesday will cool to 85 (53) with morning clouds and afternoon sun. Thursday should be sunny with a high of 81 (55), with partly cloudy conditions on Friday and a high of 79 (56).