The Meghan Markle Dilemma: Can She Truly Follow in Oprah's Footsteps?
The most recent episode of Family Guy made fun of Meghan Markle and Prince Harry, as well as their newfound methods of making money.
Commentator Kinsey Schofield, who covers royal affairs, has called the 42-year-old the "worst nightmare" of her life, pointing out that the duchess has lofty goals of becoming "the next Oprah Winfrey" in Hollywood.
This occurs only a few months after the pair was subjected to vicious mockery in a South Park episode.
"I think it must be because the one thing that they hate is people making fun of them," TalkTV's Mike Graham stated on his show. She is so in need of being taken seriously that she wants to be taken seriously.
"She looks the right way all the time, she knows when the camera is on her."
Schofield went on, "We have heard that Meghan aspires to be the next Oprah Winfrey, so if they do want to pursue a career in Hollywood.
"They must reject the notion that they are a parody if they are to achieve that level of success; it is essential to their brand.
"Dior will not want to collaborate with someone who the general public finds amusing.
"They want sophistication and somebody that's chic."
Meghan has come under fire for allegedly "considering run for office" and filling the seat of Californian Senator Dianne Feinstein.
The 41-year-old has been advised by irate royal pundit PDina to concentrate on her duties as a duchess.
She stated to Royally US of Us Weekly: "It is not a logical next step. In my opinion, it discloses a great deal more about her true goals prior to her marriage to Harry. Given that you were married into the Royal Family, why would you ever want to do that?
"As a duchess, it is your responsibility to support your husband in his charitable endeavors. What makes you want to work for the government? As a duchess, that defies logic.
It only indicates that she has long harbored political aspirations. You don't simply decide one day that you want to become a senator."