Revealed: Princess Kate and Prince William's greatest concern for George, Charlotte, and Louis
A royal specialist has revealed the Prince and Princess of Wales's greatest concern about their three children.
It is said that the couple wants to make sure their kids have as regular a childhood as they can, even if they are members of the Royal Family.
Prince George was first welcomed by the couple in July 2013, followed by Princess Charlotte in 2015 and Prince Louis in 2018.
The three children, George, 10, Charlotte, 8, and Louis, 5, have mostly avoided the spotlight and are presently enrolled in Berkshire's Lambrook School.
As the three of them age, Kate and William are starting to face new difficulties that come with growing older.
One of Kate and William's greatest concerns has been revealed by royal expert Richards Fitzwilliams in an interview with Express.co.uk.
He stated that "[Kate and William] are wisely concerned at any overexposure of him and of Charlotte and Louis."
Ms. Fitzwilliams went on to say: "The younger they are, the more likely they are to steal the show with childish antics which get publicized worldwide and make the monarchy seem more relatable."
"They are all at Lambrook School, which is near their family home of Adelaide Cottage and it is likely that George will follow his father to Eton."
The expert continued, "Whatever he does as the future King is of interest, whether as Page of Honour at the Coronation or blowing bubbles on a visit to Canada." George is the eldest of the three children and will one day become King.
We are given nuggets of information, such as the fact that George likes to dance, play tennis, or eat pizza. We also frequently receive pictures of George on significant occasions and catch him at royal functions.
"His parents, however, are well aware of the need for him and his siblings to have privacy as they grow up."
The couple reportedly told the King that their children would always come "before duty" in a recent story.
The pair has made it apparent that they wish to raise their small family first, and reports indicate that the King has been putting pressure on his older son and daughter-in-law to take on more responsibilities.
When William goes to Singapore for the 2023 Earthshot Prize next month, the couple's dreams come true.
Despite her history of standing by her husband, Kate has chosen to stay at home with George, Charlotte, and Louis.
George had examinations the same week, which is one of the reasons Kate made her decision; she wanted to be there to "support" their kid.