Sinema Suffers, Gallego and Lake Locked in Tight Battle in New 2024 Poll
Incumbent Senator and former Democrat Kyrsten Sinema has failed to impress in most every poll released in the still-early race to replace her in the United States Senate, as the race has continued to be dominated by Democrat Ruben Gallego and Republican Kari Lake, who only this week formally announced her campaign.
Sinema's failure to draw support has left Gallego and Lake in a tight battle with a recent poll showing that Lake may even have the edge in a potential three-person matchup.
Three-Way Race Lacks Strong Third Candidate
According to a new poll conducted by National Research Inc., and released to the Washington Examiner, Senator Kyrsten Sinema does not hold much hope if she decides to run for re-election in a three-way race against Democrat Ruben Gallego and Republican Kari Lake.
In a hypothetical three-person race, Sinema trailed the two major party candidates with only 19% of respondents saying they would vote for the incumbent.
Lake managed to pull ahead of Gallego with 37% of the vote, while Gallego came in with 33%. In a head-to-head the two tied with 44% each.
The results for Gallego and Lake are interesting, as they reflect a bit of a change from the polling so far between the two, with Gallego usually being the beneficiary of Sinema's entry to the race and suffering more from a head-to-head matchup with Lake.
And while the race for Sinema's seat is indeed early and one poll does not make a trend, the consistency of the Independent senator's failure to garner support may leave her questioning whether or not to even conduct a campaign for re-election in 2024.
The National Research poll was conducted from October 7th to the 9th and surveyed 400 likely voters in the state of Arizona. The margin of error for the poll was plus or minus 4.9 percentage points. You can view the poll's results here.
At DailyNewsNow we bring you the latest news from the West Coast and around the country, covering a wide range of topics from politics and campaign news to entertainment and local interest stories. Please feel free to share the story with friends and join the conversation in the comments below!