The Texas Rangers' Unlikely Playoff Run
By Ben Dieter
The Texas Rangers looked dead in the water at the end of September. They had lost three out of four to the Seattle Mariners and lost the division to the Houston Astros in game 162.
Instead of a bye and some time to rest, they had to fly from Seattle to Tampa, Fla. to face off against the Rays. The Rays had won 99 regular season games.
After sweeping the Rays in the American League Wild Card Series, the Rangers had to face the 101-win Baltimore Orioles. Again, the Rangers completed an unlikely sweep.
In fact, a team that couldn’t seem to find a way to win the last week of September swept their first seven postseason games.
So what changed that made this team find a way to win when it mattered? We all know it was the pitching, and pitching wins championships.
Jordan Montgomery has been brilliant throughout the Rangers’ run so far, and so has Nathan Eovaldi. The bullpen, a serious weakness in the regular season, also got the job done.
Jose LeClerc successfully shut down the opponents in the first seven games of the postseason. Josh Sborz has been lights out. Aroldis Chapman, although not shutting opponents down, got the job done.
Everything that went wrong for the Rangers in September seemed to be their strong suit during this postseason run.
It should have come as no surprise as the Rangers did this all season - a long run of success followed by a struggle. The offense was either amazing or bad. The pitching was usually good enough.
The team gets to face their in-state rivals for the ALCS, which is heading to game seven as this article is being published.
The Rangers have once again hit a bad streak, can they snap out of it? After taking the first two of the American League Championship Series in Houston, they lost the next three in Arlington.
Can this team once again find magic enough to win it all? We will soon find out the answer to that question.
They say pitching wins championships, and the Texas Rangers are lacking in that front, but have somehow made it deep into the ALCS. This team is built to succeed for the foreseeable future, and it should be a fun ride for Rangers fans everywhere!
Ben Dieter began writing about the Texa Rangers in 2009. He can be found each week on The Ranger Report Podcast, and his writings can be found at www.therangerreport.com and www.dalsportsnation.com You can contact him @therangerreport on Twitter.