A new manager is not what the Padres need right now
The San Diego Padres may need to look for another manager, and that is not a good thing.
It is rumored that Bob Melvin may be on his way out of town.
The San Francisco Giants are interested in the veteran skipper, and apparently, the Padres are letting him interview for the job.
That worked well for the Padres last time as Bruce Bochy left San Diego to manage the Giants and won three World Series with the franchise. SMH.
What are the Padres thinking? Really? What in the world are you doing? To the Giants?
Is the franchise in that much dismay that Bob Melvin cannot wait to get out of town? The veteran skipper will enter 2024 in the last year of a contract with the Padres, and apparently, he is not happy in America's Finest City. Can you blame him? The Padres were a mess in 2023, a year after making it all the way to the NLCS.
Melvin is from the Bay Area and is reportedly interested in returning to his home.
If the Padres are seriously considering a new skipper, then it will surely set the organization back a few more seasons.
What has always been needed in San Diego is stability. A Padres way. That mantra has not echoed through the halls of Petco Park since the Andy Green era. The Padres desperately need continuity, and naming a new manager will not bring that immediately.
Mike Shildt and Ryan Flaherty are named as possible replacements. Both men worked under Bob Melvin in 2023. Shildt has managerial experience, while Flaherty is a young coach.
The Padres have major issues this winter with free agency as Josh Hader and Blake Snell are both due for free agency. Juan Soto is also entering his last year under contract, and reports are that the Padres would love to extend him. The timing of this is bizarre but not unusual for the Padres and the way they conduct business.
Losing Bob Melvin to a division rival would be careless. Especially a manager of that ilk.
Please embrace tradition and build a brand internally. The Padres need stability.