CDC Reports 220,000 Children and Adolescents Diagnosed with Arthritis in the US
Arthritis is often associated with older adults, but it can affect people of any age, including children and adolescents. According to a recent report from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), an estimated 220,000 children and adolescents in the United States were diagnosed with arthritis between 2017 and 2021. This is a more precise estimate than previous reports, which placed the number of cases among those under 18 anywhere between 13,400 and 294,000.
The report highlights the need to prioritize children and adolescents for arthritis prevention and treatment by identifying risk factors, developing self-management interventions, promoting physical activity and weight control, and screening and linking to mental health services. The health industry must address social determinants of health and systemic factors that could lead to arthritis.
The report found racial and ethnic disparities in arthritis diagnoses, with the condition being twice as prevalent among Black children than white children. Arthritis was most common in those with diagnosed depression, a heart condition or anxiety. It was also more prevalent among those who were physically inactive compared with those who were active.
The report used data from the National Survey of Children’s Health, where “diagnosed arthritis” was defined as parents answering “yes” to whether a medical professional had told them their child had the disease. Arthritis is defined as the swelling and tenderness of one or more joints, which can cause pain and stiffness in the affected area, according to the Mayo Clinic.
In summary, arthritis is a disease that can affect people of all ages, including children and adolescents. The new report from the CDC highlights the need to prioritize prevention and treatment of arthritis among this population, especially those who are at higher risk due to social determinants of health and systemic factors.
Attribution
TheHill
https://thehill.com/policy/healthcare/4271260-children-adolescents-arthritis-cdc/