Texas Governor Abbott Condemns Attack on Israel, Increases Security
After Israel was attacked over the weekend, Texas Governor Greg Abbott denounced the war and showed support for Americans in the country. Governor Abbott announced several more initiatives to support Texas citizens.
On Monday, October 9, in a press release, Governor Abbott said:
“The State of Texas condemns these heinous acts of violence and inhumanity against Israel and its people by ruthless terrorists, and we stand ready to offer our complete support to the Israeli and Jewish communities.”
“I firmly denounce the act of war against Israeli citizens and Americans in Israel and support Israel’s right to defend itself from these barbaric attacks. Working with local partners across Texas, we are actively increasing security at Jewish and Israel-related locations such as synagogues and schools. In response to these cowardly attacks, we stand united with our Jewish neighbors and we repudiate terrorism and anti-Semitism."
Governor Abbott directed the Texas Department of Public Safety to provide support to local partners who may become targets as a result of the recent attack. He noted there may be attacks by Hezbollah or Hamas against the Jewish community in Texas.
In addition, Governor Abbott restricted all Texas agencies from purchasing or exporting goods to the Gaza Strip especially if they have ties to Hamas.
To provide additional safeguards, Governor Abbott distributed $4 million in grant funding to 31 Jewish organizations to increase their security.
Governor Abbott also directed the Texas flag to be flown at half-staff over the Israeli conflict and Americans who lost their lives in the country. The flag will remain at half-staff until this upcoming Saturday.
Earlier Governor Abbott posted the Executive Order supporting Israel on X.
According to CBS-19, over 1,600 people have lost their lives including Israeli, Palestinian, and American citizens.
Here is a recent update on the war:
What do you think the U.S. should do to support Israel?