Vineyard wins Island Cup on last-second field goal
( Oct. 29, 2023 ) The Whalers twice took two touchdown leads Saturday against Martha’s Vineyard and appeared primed to reclaim the Island Cup but the Vineyarders clawed back into the game with a pair of second half touchdowns and kicked the game-winning field goal with three seconds left to win 24-21.
“I was concerned about the pressure of this game on some of them being too much, but I didn’t see that,” coach Tim Psaradelis said. “I was glad that they focused on their jobs and executed as best they could. Obviously there were mistakes that didn't help us, but all in all I thought we came in levelheaded, we played well, and had some good moments. We gave ourselves a shot to win it.”
Nantucket jumped out to a 14-0 lead in the first quarter when Jay Nolasco recovered a blocked punt for a touchdown and Arann Hanlon took an end around 68-yards for a touchdown.
The Vineyarders cut into the lead with a touchdown in the second quarter and appeared to tie the score with a 60-yard touchdown run that was erased due to a holding penalty to give the Whalers a 14-7 lead heading into halftime.
After the break, Nantucket extended its lead early in the third quarter when James Dutra scooped up a fumble from a botched handoff and ran it back for a defensive touchdown. The Vineyard pulled within eight midway through the third quarter with a touchdown and blocked extra point by Jay Nolasco to make the score 21-13.
The Vineyarders tied the game thanks to some trickery when they completed a half back pass for a touchdown and converted the two-point conversion to even things up at 21-21 with just over five minutes to play.
The Vineyard was driving to put the game away in the fourth quarter when Brian Cuello intercepted a pass for his second turnover of the day, but the Whalers would throw an interception of their own two plays later to set up the game-winning field goal, which the Vineyarders had to make three straight times thanks to a timeout and penalty wiping out their first two successful tries.
The Whalers finish the regular season 3-5, a major improvement over last year that saw Nantucket finish the regular season 0-8.
In other Homecoming action, the Whalers shut out the Vineyarders 6-0 to win Nantucket’s first Golden Anchor. Caroline Allen and Claire Genthner both scored twice and Marin Mooney and Suz Peraner scored once.
On the soccer field, the Whaler boys lost 2-0 and the Whaler girls lost 4-1, with Adney Brannigan scoring the lone goal for Nantucket.