David Beckham: The Victoria Documentary on Netflix was a "Hell" and an "Emotional Roller Coaster."
The completion of filming his Netflix documentary with his wife Victoria Beckham has delighted David Beckham.
During the David Beckham Fragrances Launch Party at the popular restaurant Torrisi in New York City, the former soccer player shared details about the project.
David said to People on Wednesday, "It was a series that took me a while to come to terms with filming, and talking about my life." "And when I decided to retire from playing soccer ten years ago, I wasn't really prepared to look back and talk about my career and my life," the speaker said.
Over the course of more than two years, the athlete and former Spice Girl shot more than 50 hours for "Beckham," which David described as a "hell of a journey."
Over the past 2.5 years, he said, "it wasn't easy and it was an emotional roller coaster, but I think we've produced something that my team can be very proud of."
Ahead of his retirement's tenth anniversary, he felt it was "the right time" to share his tale, even though he stated that he "was ready to move on straight away" after retirement to concentrate on his business endeavors.
The couple's candor and openness about their past, which included resurrecting Rebecca Loos, David's former personal assistant,'s 2004 allegations that she had an affair with him, shocked director Fisher Stevens.
"He completely exceeded my expectations. He was quite honest.
Like, I'm ready, he says. I want to be the first to share my tale. After that, I became interested in researching and thought, "Jesus, this guy's life is crazy." A nuts. Stevens had previously told People, "I had no idea."
Stevens added, "He seems to [care] about people a lot and he listens and is warm. There's a kind of warmth to him." "He has a very striking style.
Though he lacks formal education and is not intelligent in the slightest, he possesses an inherent ability to read people and spaces.
Netflix is currently streaming Beckham.
Source: nypost.com