Ripley gets old school win over Amory to clinch Region championship
TUPELO–If you go to a Ripley Tigers football game looking for a flashy offense that puts up a ton of points, you’ll be disappointed.
But if you’re looking for an old-school run game backed by a very stingy defense, you’re definitely at the right place.
Friday night, the Tigers stuck to that old-school football script to upend the Amory Panthers 14-10 in a huge Region 1-4A matchup of unbeaten.
Ripley fourth-year head coach Perry Liles agrees that his offense isn’t explosive but works.
“It’s what it takes for us to beat somebody good like they (Amory) are,” said Liles. “They might be better than us, but we took it to them by running the football and playing good solid defense. That’s how we win games.”
Ripley scored all the points they needed in the first half. Down 3-0 after one quarter, Ripley used a pair of lengthy drives, capped by two Jaylen Brooks rushing TDs (11,1) for a 14-3 lead they would take into the halftime.
Out of 34 offensive first-half plays, the Tigers ran the ball 30 times for 153 yards with Brooks leading with 47 yards on eight carries. Senior fullback Demarrion Williams chipped in 45 yards on the ground.
Region champs for the first time in 16 years...
The Tigers improved to 9-0 on the season, but more importantly, the four-point win secured the first region (division for you old-schoolers) championship since 2007. The Tigers will be a No. 1 seed in the upcoming Class 4A football playoffs.
“That’s exciting…and I’m so proud of our team and our coaching staff for getting that done,” added Liles. “It’s just exciting to see them grow over the last four years and for those seniors to accomplish something like that.”
“Highway 15 Rivalry” Week...
Now that the Tigers have locked up playoff positioning, they’ll focus on locking up an undefeated regular season, and the only thing standing in the way of that is New Albany. The Tigers will hit the road to face the Bulldogs on Thursday night.
"As always, we want to beat New Albany and the kids are excited about that,” said Liles.
“We want to stay healthy in doing it. It’s a short week of practice. We want to get that done and get ready for the playoffs and the new season.”