Air strikes hit refugee camp
REMAINS of an Israeli police station after being recaptured from Hamas (Wikipedia).
Air strikes by Israeli jets blasted apartment buildings near Gaza City on Tuesday, killing and wounding an as-yet unknown number of people. The bombs fell on housing in a refugee camp.
It’s believed that hundreds of people were hurt in the strike which was aimed at a Hamas military leader who was an architect of the Oct. 7 attack. Israeli sources claimed the attack killed him.
At the same time, Israeli ground forces moved forward, fighting Hamas militants. The U.S. urged Israel to take “feasible precautions to minimize harm to civilians” as well as protect U.S. citizens in the area.
Biden pushes $106 b in aid for Israel, Ukraine
President Joe Biden and the secretaries of state and defense appeared before the Senate on Tuesday, urging passage of $106 billion in aid for Israel and Ukraine.
The House of Representatives is considering a bill that would provide funds only for Israel.
The Biden administration is calling for $61.4 billion for Ukraine, $14.3 billion for Israel and $13.6 billion to improve U.S. border security.
Rangers take 3-1 series lead after win
The Texas Rangers scored 10 runs in the first three innings and went on to defeat the Arizona Diamondbacks 11-7 Tuesday night to take a 3-1 advantage in the 2023 World Series.
Game Five will be on Wednesday in Phoenix. Game Six – if needed – would be on Friday and Game Seven on Saturday.
NHL: The Los Angeles Kings defeated the Toronto Maple Leafs 4-1 on Tuesday to improve their record to 5-2-2.
Weather: Peak and then drop
The weather forecast for our West Orange County area calls for daytime temperatures starting in the upper 80s and then dropping to the upper 70s by the weekend. Wednesday should be partly cloudy with a high of 87 followed by an overnight low of 52. Thursday will be sunny with a high of 84 (52), followed by two days of partly cloudy skies and temps of 80 (54) on Friday and 78 (55) on Saturday.