Football tops Tech Boston for first win
( Oct. 5, 2023 ) The football team earned its first win of the season Saturday, behind three unanswered touchdowns in the second half of a 19-6 victory over Tech Boston on a rainy afternoon at Vito Capizzo Stadium.
“It was a team effort all-around, just great energy,” coach Tim Psaradelis said. “Nobody hanging their head, just battling all-around, all across the board. Anyone who went in just gave everything, it was great.”
Tech Boston opened the scoring in the first quarter when the Whalers made a goal-line stand on the opening drive of the game but fumbled the ball right back to their opponent on offense to set up a oneyard touchdown run.
The Whalers’ defense held strong for the rest of the game and won the turnover battle 5-2 on a day when the rainy conditions made it difficult for both sides to hold on to the football.
After being shut out in the first half, Nantucket opened the third quarter with a 48-yard run by Carlos Aguilar on the first play from scrimmage. The drive would stall just over midfield when a penalty negated a first-down reception by Arann Hanlon, leading to a punt.
Anderson Tejada recovered a fumbled snap on the ensuing drive to set up Nantucket’s first score early in the third quarter. After taking over at the 17-yard line, two plays later Brock Beamish rolled out to his left and found Aguilar wide open in the corner of the end zone for an 11-yard touchdown reception to tie the game 6-6, following a missed extra point.
The Whalers took their first lead of the season in the final minute of the third quarter when Angel Cabrera punched the ball in from six yards out with a strong run as the offense again took advantage of a short-field opportunity thanks to the defense.
Hanlon completed the scoring in the fourth quarter with a 30-yard touchdown run, taking a pitch to the left, breaking a tackle and then scampering down the left sideline for the score.
Nantucket, now 1-3 on the season, was ranked 27th in Tuesday’s updated Div. 7 power rankings. The top 16 teams with at least three wins qualify for the postseason, so the Whalers currently find themselves outside the playoff picture.
The Whalers are scheduled to travel Saturday to Dennis-Yarmouth, who will enter the game 3-1 after suffering its first loss of the season last week against Barnstable.