Chicago Leaders Look For Answers to the Migrant Crisis in Texas
Chicago Mayor Brandon Johnson was planning to travel to the southern border and figure out the issues that he is feeling with the effect of supporting migrants. On Monday, his staff said he was not but his staff would continue with the travel.
Texas Governor Greg Abbott bussed over 15,000 migrants to Chicago since August 2022 according to a press release. The number of migrants has caused Chicago to become overwhelmed.
Additional migrants arrived from El Paso and other migrants arrived on their own so the City is supporting around 18,500 migrants according to the Office of Emergency Management and Communications.
In addition to supporting local residents, the city has to now support migrants as well. Many arrive with health issues and then they cannot work for six months based on U.S. immigration policies.
Mayor Johnson thought it would be good to travel to Latin America to get a better understanding of the situation which is very similar to what New York City Mayor Eric Adams did recently.
The Mayor’s office said according to NBC Chicago:
"With the weather growing colder and hundreds of migrants arriving each day, it is more important than ever that every stakeholder at the state, federal, and local level work diligently to address this challenge, while continuing to meet the needs of Chicago and Illinois residents."
On Wednesday, Mayor Johnson’s staff will visit El Paso according to CBS 4.
Twenty-fifth Ward Alderman Byron Sigcho-Lopez who is part of the delegation said:
"We still have a failed response from the federal government, state government has not set up one single shelter, the hope is we can connect the dots and raise awareness of what going on at the border."
Chicago wants to see the migrant crisis up close and raise awareness among President Joe Biden and the federal government since this problem is bigger than one city.
Do you think Chicago leaders will get any answers solved on their Latin America trip?