Meghan Markle: Not a Chance to Be US President
High-Profile Endorsement Meets Skepticism Amid Speculations of a Royal Bid for Presidency
Meghan Markle, the Duchess of Sussex, has been endorsed for the US presidency by none other than Valerie Biden Owens, President Joe Biden's sister and political strategist.
This announcement has stirred up quite a debate, particularly on Sky News Australia, where the validity of this endorsement was questioned.
The former actress, has been speculated to harbor political ambitions for some time now, and this endorsement by a major political figure has added fuel to the fire.
She has also emerged as a favorite among Democrats in a poll asking them to choose female candidates they would vote for, reportedly tying with Vice President Kamala Harris and surpassing former Presidential nominee Hillary Clinton.
However, despite this endorsement and poll result, some analysts remain skeptical about Meghan's chances of securing the presidency.
Kosha Gada, a contributor for Sky News Australia, stated, "I think they want a little bit of that 'Markle Sparkle', given all his other troubles that we have discussed before, but I don't think she has a chance."
Since stepping down as senior working members of the Royal Family and relocating to the US in 2020, Meghan and her husband, Prince Harry, have been at the center of much speculation.
Some suggest that Meghan may follow in the footsteps of other actors-turned-politicians like Arnold Schwarzenegger and Ronald Reagan, perhaps by running for a high-ranking position such as the Governor of California.
Meghan has been active in US politics, lobbying for changes to parental leave and climate policy. Furthermore, she has been linked with the Hollywood talent agency William Morris Endeavour (WME), sparking rumors of her intention to become a "Hollywood power player".
However, the future remains uncertain. With the recent end of her $20 million deal with Spotify and Prince Harry focusing on his Heart of Invictus documentary, speculation about Meghan's next move continues to grow.