US Embassy In Lebanon Recommends US Citizens Leave Country Now
The US Embassy in Beirut, Lebanon has recommended that all US citizens in the country leave now, while commercial flights are available, due to the unpredictable security situation related to the ongoing war between Israel and Hamas in the Gaza Strip. In the same announcement, the US Embassy stated that US citizens should have a plan in place for crisis situations that does not rely on assistance from the US government, as US military-assisted evacuations from other countries is rare.
The announcement also mentions that the best time to leave a country is before the crisis occurs. As to what crisis this might be refering to, speculation would say the possibility of Hezbollah joining in the war against Israel. Already there have been ongoing skirmishes of attrition along the Lebanese-Israeli de-facto boundary, which has seen Hezbollah launching rockets against Israeli military positions and settlements while Israel has launched its own missiles and armed drones against Hezbollah fighters. The violence has only increased as Hezbollah has threatened to support Hamas if Israel goes forward with the ground offensive in Gaza.
While Lebanon cannot afford to get involved in the war between Israel and Hamas, given the dire financial hardships plaguing the entire country, the fact of the matter is that Hezbollah might drag them into the war anyway. Indeed, according to a statement by Hezbollah's leadership, they have been having discussions with Hamas and the Islamic Jihad for what they must do to achieve an "all-out victory" over Israel in this latest conflict.
Given that the recommendation to leave the country is coming now so soon on the heels of Israel declaring its intentions to expand operations on the ground in Gaza, the concern likely is that Hezbollah might be about to increase its own involvement in the war as well. Whether that leads to the war expanding to include Lebanon, and what Syria and Iran might do as well, remains to be seen.