Biden approves border walls
IMMIGRATION OFFICER at U.S.-Mexico border (U.S. Customs and Border Protection photo).
President Joe Biden’s decision to allow 20 miles of extra border walls in south Texas is raising some questions.
According to the Associated Press, the president said he didn’t believe that border walls were effective, but that the Republican-controlled Congress (at that time) approved the spending in 2019, before Biden took office.
“The money was appropriated for the border wall. I can’t stop that,” said Biden. To clear the way for construction over 20 federal rules and laws had to be waived, according to The New York Times.
At the same time, the federal government announced it would begin deporting Venezuelans back to their home country. Fleeing political oppression, economic collapse and violence, thousands have made the trek – mostly on foot – from South America and through Mexico in the hope they could get asylum.
Immigration has become a major issue and not only among Republicans. Some of the immigrants have located in big cities with Democratic mayors, placing a burden on those municipal budgets to care for them.
“Absolute immunity” for presidents?
THE WHITE HOUSE (White House Photo)
Former president Donald Trump claimed Thursday that the chief executive has “absolute immunity” from civil and criminal charges.
In a brief filed Thursday by his attorneys in U.S. District Court in Washington, D.C., it was alleged that “234 years of precedent” insulate presidents from legal action done while serving in that job, according to United Press International.
Trump is facing federal prosecution for interference in the 2020 presidential election, won by Joe Biden. Trump has alleged he was the real victor, but was the victim of “massive fraud.”
Weather: Sun sneaking back in
Contradicting yesterday’s forecast, the outlook for our West Orange County area for Friday has been upgraded to sunny skies and a daytime high of 90 with an overnight low of 61. Saturday should be the beginning of partly cloudy conditions and a daytime high of 86 (62). There will be a bump to 88 (63) on Sunday, and then the temperatures will begin to slide – 82 on Sunday, 76 on Tuesday, etc.