Fighting rages on in Gaza
HAMAS vs. Israel (Shutterstock).
The fighting between Israeli armed forces and Hamas militants in the Gaza Strip escalated on Monday.
Air strikes by Israel are hitting targets in the area, which has been cut off from food, fuel and more. Hamas has attacked with missiles and raids that that resulted in the capture of civilians and soldiers.
The Associated Press is reporting Hamas has said it will kill its captives if Israel targets civilians without giving a warning.
To date, Americans killed in the four-day long struggle is at nine. The New York Times is reporting that 900 people in Israel are dead, with 150 people held hostage and 687 Palestinians have been killed.
RFK Jr. will seek presidency
Robert F. Kennedy Jr., a vaccine skeptic, announced on Monday that he will seek the presidency in 2024.
“There have been independent presidential campaigns before, but this time it’s going to be different. Because this time, the independent is going to win,” he said, according to CNN.
While no independent candidate has ever come close to winning the presidency, some have attracted enough support to affect the outcome of the election. In 2000, Ralph Nader’s independent candidacy may have allowed George W. Bush to defeat Al Gore, some observers have said.
Kennedy is the son of Robert Kennedy, who ran for the Democratic nomination in 1968, but who was assassinated after winning the California primary in June,
Dodgers on the brink of elimination
The Los Angeles Dodgers, who won the National League West title this season by a mile, now have their backs to the wall in the NL Division Series after losing 4-2 on Monday at home to the Arizona Diamondbacks. They now trail two games to none in this best three-of-five series.
The D-backs jumped on LAD starter Bobby Miller with three runs in the first inning and stayed ahead.
Zac Gallen got the win, working 5.1 innings and yielding five hits and two earned runs. He struck out four, walked one and yielded a home run to J.D. Martinez.
Weather: Turnaround coming
The cooling trend that’s hit our West Orange County area will reverse itself soon. The forecast calls for a high of 75 on Tuesday with an overnight low of 63. But warmer temperatures will return on Wednesday with a high of 76, rising to 82 by Thursday under sunny skies.