Citation Issued at Dueling State Street Protests Over Israel-Gaza War
A rally in support of the Palestinian people drew a counter-protest at the corner of Las Positas and State Streets on Thursday evening.
The local chapter of Jewish Voice for Peace scheduled a “Vigil to Stop Genocide in Gaza” at 6:00 p.m. in front of the Auto Stereo Shop.
Across the street, closest to the 7-Day Nursery, a group of Pro-Israel demonstrators gathered with the flag of Israel and bulletin board with posters of missing and kidnapped people.
Around 7:00 p.m., Santa Barbara Police Officers arrived at the intersection to monitor the situation after receiving a call about the two groups yelling at each other, according to Assistant Chief of Police Kenneth Kushner.
“The Officers observed the two groups involved in First Amendment-protected activities and remained to provide safety and ensure that Constitutional rights were equally protected,” said Kushner.
An Officer then observed one of the male demonstrators quickly approach the Pro-Israel group, grab a flag, and run. The Officer gave chase and detained the subject.
The victim who had possessed the flag signed for a citizen’s arrest, resulting in a citation being issued, said Kushner.
Photographer Amy Katz attended the rally and shared her perspective in this Op-Ed posted on edhat. Katz stated the protestor also pushed the man holding the flag. (The full Op-Ed can be read here .)
The Hamas terrorist group attacked Israel on October 7, prompting Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to declare war. Israel says at least 1,400 people, mostly civilians, have been killed since Hamas launched the attack from the Gaza Strip, the Palestinian territory it has controlled for years.
The U.S. State Department says 32 Americans are known to have been killed, and 11 U.S. citizens remain unaccounted for, some reportedly taken hostage.
Palestinian health officials say about 3,800 people, including hundreds of children, have been killed by Israel’s retaliatory airstrikes in Gaza, and at least 12,500 more wounded.