{"name": "Cafe Los Arcos", "address": "633 E Cabrillo Blvd", "city": "Santa Barbara", "state": "CA", "categories": "American (Traditional), Restaurants", "hours": null, "attributes": {"BusinessParking": {"garage": false, "street": false, "validated": false, "lot": true, "valet": false}, "RestaurantsReservations": true, "OutdoorSeating": true, "WiFi": null, "RestaurantsTakeOut": true, "RestaurantsGoodForGroups": true, "Music": null, "Ambience": null}, "business_stars": 3.0, "review_info": [{"review_stars": 3.0, "review_date": "2015-01-14 05:50:53", "review_text": "It's a hotel bar that serves food. It's better than a Holiday Inn bar, but it's overpriced for the obviously low quality food ingredients. There's really nothing stellar or memorable about it. Order pizza in and spend half the money."}, {"review_stars": 4.0, "review_date": "2013-03-30 21:35:52", "review_text": "This is a review for Barra los Arcos which is the bar/lounge area across the lobby from Cafe los Arcos.\n\nLast night a group of my friends and I got together to enjoy the Happy Hour at Barra los Arcos. I have to say, the service, the venue, and the view from the bar are all stellar! We found the seating to be comfortable and the place not overly crowded nor overly noisy on a Friday night. The bartender (I wish I knew his name) is one heck of a nice guy! So friendly and efficient. The House Chardonnay ($5/glass during HH) was delicious and the food was good (not super great but good) and served promptly. We were told they'd be happy to provide table service to us even if we located ourselves up on the landing/seating area just outside of the bar area (between the bar and the lobby). I was so impressed with the bartender's and the server's relaxed, easy-going, and yet eager-to-please approach. The HH extends to 7pm which is generous. Besides House Red and House White wine during HH, they also make available a beer on tap for $5 and a list of 5 or so appetizers at a reduced price including chips with gauc and salsa, egg rolls with chili sauce, or hummus dip with bread.\n\nThe Barra los Arcos outside patio is awesome as well. There is a variety of seating options there including chairs around tables, chairs around fire pits, and even two patio swings big enough for three people (although probably meant for two). It was a little too cool last night to sit outside but we will definitely be back to try that out on a warmer evening down the road."}, {"review_stars": 1.0, "review_date": "2012-12-03 00:31:07", "review_text": "My boyfriend's parents dined here recently and had a very disappointing experience:\n\nThanksgiving morning, we had breakfast at the Fess Parker's Santa Barbara resort's restaurant. First they wanted to seat us at a tiny table for two so we waited for a larger table. The table we were given was adjacent and protruding into the passage the waiters used to get and deliver the food. This table was also on a line to the scullery. As a result all through the meal waiters and busboys were quickly passing right by our table on the way to or from the kitchen and scullery. The constant back and forth was annoying and noisy. The noise from the dishes being placed in the scullery was extremely noisy and piercing to the ear. In addition it took three requests to get cream for Lynn's tea. The tea had cooled down considerably by the time the cream arrived. A design flaw placed the buffet foods adjacent to the outside row of dining tables. Those diners had people looking down at them as they gathered their food. For us the people gathering their food blocked our view to the outside courtyard. The waiters seemed overtaxed. Our waiter said they were not understaffed but overloaded with dinners. Seems at a quality restaurant there would be ample personnel to meet the needs of the diners. Lastly my ham was overcooked, dry and tough, the eggs were not prepared as requested, potatoes were so so, and the toast was hard. However, my wife's lox and bagel were wonderful. The only problem with her meal was that it included only one bagel. There was enough lox for at least two bagels, if not  a third. I reported all of the above in addition to the suggestion that they remove our table and go for quality rather than quantity to the concierge as there was no one else to report it to.\nOut of a five point rating scale I would give it a one, and that is only because of the quality of the lox and bagel."}]}