{"name": "John Dunn Gourmet Dining Room", "address": "721 Cliff Dr", "city": "Santa Barbara", "state": "CA", "categories": "Diners, Restaurants", "hours": null, "attributes": {"BusinessParking": {"garage": false, "street": false, "validated": false, "lot": false, "valet": false}, "RestaurantsReservations": true, "OutdoorSeating": true, "WiFi": "no", "RestaurantsTakeOut": false, "RestaurantsGoodForGroups": true, "Music": null, "Ambience": {"touristy": false, "hipster": false, "romantic": false, "divey": false, "intimate": false, "trendy": false, "upscale": false, "classy": true, "casual": false}}, "business_stars": 4.0, "review_info": [{"review_stars": 5.0, "review_date": "2019-04-19 04:49:08", "review_text": "This \"classroom\" dining experience was delicious. We let the servers know that we had a show to catch and they met our timing needs. All 4 courses were excellent; expertly prepared, and the first 3 were paired with delicious wines. My favorite part of the meal was their unbelievable coconut cake with a raspberry sauce. It was spectacular. We will definitely return!!!"}, {"review_stars": 4.0, "review_date": "2017-05-08 18:35:54", "review_text": "It had been over 20 years since we had been to the John Dunn Gourmet Dining Room. The dining room changed since we were there last. It seemed a little smaller. However, the decor was beautiful. With the sun setting, the lights in the room were enough to enjoy the look of our courses. Also, the dress code has relaxed. Back then required men were required to wear coat and slacks and women dressed up. People were in jeans and lounge wear this time while we were still dressed up. We imagined there were fewer students requesting this course, as 20 years ago, each person had their own server. While these were unexpected disappointments, the most important things have not changed........the excellent service and the excellent menu selections.\n\nWe observed the different students in the room and found one, in particular, that has been in the program for more than one semester. She was very proper and very accommodating. Our server was extremely polite and very attentive. Our water glasses were never empty until we wanted them to be. If our server was not around for some reason, someone else would step in until she returned. I could tell our server was new; so, there is nothing to say to her except to keep on learning. Her start was impressive. We wish her the best of luck in her studies. \n\nThe food was exquisite. Before, we were able to choose between land or sea, but they have decided to go with a pre fixe menu. Unfortunately for me, two of the courses contained ingredients I do not eat. However, for the experience, I tried them. Other than the fact that those ingredients were not my favorite, I have to admit that for a short period, I enjoyed them. Each course was presented beautifully and perfectly paired with a wine. I am not a wine drinker, but I can see how people enjoy wine when properly with food. We had a five-course meal which consisted of an appetizer, a soup, a sea course, a land course, and a dessert. The first four courses were paired with a different half glass of wine. Dessert came with coffee or tea. \n\nWhen eating at the Dining Room, remember that servers are students. Some are more advanced in their studies than others. Yes, there were things that our server and other servers could have done better. However, we fully understood she is still in the process of learning. She was kind and attentive, and it showed that she was trying her best. She is well on her way to an excellent future. We definitely will return. You cannot beat the service, the food, and the price ($40 per person). Remember to give a generous tip. It goes to supporting this program."}, {"review_stars": 3.0, "review_date": "2013-03-28 02:50:52", "review_text": "Culinary students need a wide range of management, line, and service experience, and the John Dunn Room provides the elements of finer dining for them.\nThe students propose the dishes and vote for their top choices, which then become the menus. It's cool to see what they come up with. \n\nSo, keep in mind this is a lab for them, they are learning, they are not at the top of their game yet. If you want to raise your odds of a better experience, perhaps go later in the semester. Others have noted this, and I've found that it's harder to get a reservation than earlier in the semester. \n\nI've been for lunch service only and it was moderately close to the beginning of the semester. I suspect that the lunch service is a lot more casual than dinner. There wasn't any crazy silverware with all the extra spoons and such, there was no crumbing the tables. \n\nThe prices are a bargain, especially if you go for the prix fixe options that include a side salad and dessert. The choice is an omelet or a crepe as the main. I picked the crepe and was pleased with the dish. It was stuffed generously with tender spinach, sundried tomatoes and lots of chunky cream cheese, plus some salad. For dessert, a fancy layered crepe cake with pistachio brittle which I think was the highlight of the meal for everyone there. All this for $10!\n\nThere are a la carte options as well, like a soup of the day, and a selection of desserts. All at good prices, but the prix fixe is the best bang for your buck.\n\nThe interior is elegant, and for a moment you won't feel like you're at a community college. \n\nThe clientele are mostly an older crowd, a much older crowd. Friends who work on campus report that often whole busloads of them come in from retirement homes to dine here. That's kind of awesome as an affordable fun afternoon out. The day I had lunch, there was a large party of ladies in cute purple and red hats. So this is probably popular with bookclubs too.\n\nService and food was okay. Mistakes were made, and we made a point to mention things in person since this is a learning space. \n\nMake a reservation! Always make a reservation. Parking is gnarly on campus, but I think with your reservation you can get a parking permit for the lunch hour. \n\nBe sure to tip - it goes into a collective bucket that provides scholarships to the culinary school."}]}