{"name": "Cava Restaurant & Bar", "address": "1212 Coast Village Rd", "city": "Montecito", "state": "CA", "categories": "Tapas Bars, Nightlife, Spanish, Latin American, Mexican, Breakfast & Brunch, Restaurants, Cocktail Bars, Bars", "hours": {"Monday": "11:0-20:0", "Tuesday": "11:0-20:0", "Wednesday": "11:0-20:0", "Thursday": "11:0-20:0", "Friday": "12:0-21:0", "Saturday": "11:0-21:0", "Sunday": "11:0-20:0"}, "attributes": {"BusinessParking": {"garage": false, "street": true, "validated": false, "lot": true, "valet": false}, "RestaurantsReservations": true, "OutdoorSeating": true, "WiFi": "free", "RestaurantsTakeOut": true, "RestaurantsGoodForGroups": true, "Music": false, "Ambience": {"touristy": false, "hipster": false, "romantic": false, "divey": false, "intimate": false, "trendy": false, "upscale": false, "classy": true, "casual": true}}, "business_stars": 4.0, "review_info": [{"review_stars": 5.0, "review_date": "2021-11-21 02:33:05", "review_text": "I am devastated, and I DO mean devastated to learn that our FAVORITE Mexican restaurant, CAVA, has closed its doors permanently.  We were about to drive up to Montecito today for lunch at Cava, which we used to do with some frequency, and I went onto Yelp to get their address to plug into WAZE, so I could see how long it'd take us.  However, before I got that far, I saw the word \"CLOSED\" by this restaurant's name... when my body then froze into a state of shock and horror.  I'm not kidding when I say that this was our favorite Mexican restaurant, and one of our favorite restaurants PERIOD.  SOOOO DEVASTATED.  I then had the extremely difficult task of telling my husband, who probably loved this place even more than I did.  Yes, I know, it's \"just\" a restaurant, and it's \"just\" food.... but we have now gone into a state of depression over this.  You just have NO idea how upsetting this is... even over a restaurant.  With tears in my eyes and a heavy sigh, I bid this wonderful restaurant adieu."}, {"review_stars": 1.0, "review_date": "2021-09-20 07:53:19", "review_text": "Not surprised Cava shut down.  The ambiance was great and gave the appearance of upscale Montecito Mexican-Spanish Restaurant.  Lived nearby for many years.  After attending church on Sunday's we'd often head over for breakfast and my buddy  spoke Spanish so guess the short Hispanic bartender with a arrogant and rude attitude sort of treated us better.  When I went in alone Sunday after church his attitude resumed.  It's like he was put out to wait on me and if I had friends at the bar mostly locals it was like a begging fest.  Requesting the same things over and over until he finally caved in.  And we always tipped well and went out of our ways to be friendly as it was a locals hang out.\nTook a gal that's a friend to dinner for her 30th birthday with her sister.  Back when she was in college had worked for Carlitos on upper State nearby the Arlington Theaterand the food was great and service good at Cava.  Guess a family member remembered her.\nBut we had to keep reminding waiting staff to bring more chips and salsa's.\nShe and her girlfriends had taken me to Carlitos on upper State for my birthday which was really a nice and sweet gesture.  But it was at best mediocre.  Drinks weak and watered down, food okay and service nothing special.  \nLast time we went to Cava with my gal friend, sister and her fianc\u00e9 everything was great except reminding servers to bring more chips and salsa plus refilling beverages.\nWent on a date with a friend to Cava and it was good.  Same scenario about chasing down servers for chips, salsa and refilling beverages.  Not fun on a date.  We typically got a great table towards the rear which was cozy and intimate for private conversations.  \nLast time we went a few years ago the food was good. My fianc\u00e9 and I took my best friend and his wife to dinner.  They drove up from the South about an hour drive to meet us there and spent the night in a nearby hotel so it was a leisurely dinner.  Table seating was just okay in the middle of the restaurant so not so private as we requested.  The servers clustered in the rear and my buddy tried to get their attention to no avail.  Finally my fianc\u00e9 had to yell out to get our server's attention.  She finally made it up to provide him a fresh drink and refill our beverages, chips, salsa, etc.  Dinner came and it was just drop the plates and hide out in the kitchen or back area and gossip.  It's like a lot of family employees or friends.  As others have mentioned sort of an arrogant snobbish attitude though hostesses over the years have been pretty good trying their best.  That was the last time we eat at Cava.  Over the last few years it's looked like a ghost town driving by on my way home a few blocks away while many others very busy on Coast Village Road and the Funk Zone.  Los Arroyos isn't anything as the ambience was at Cava.  Maria's Chicken Enchiladas in green sauce   Excellent and crispy chicken tacos.  Plus the self serve salsa bar is awesome and a beverage dispenser nearby.  However the employees still seem to hide out in the back restaurant rather than checking in on customers.  Drop the plates and run back to the kitchen.  Montecito Cafe was a awesome 4 star restaurant with great service until they changed front managers who were lousy.  Specials were amazing.  Honor Bar seems to have taken that local customer base.  Very good food and reasonably priced but they can't seem to keep better servers but bartenders great.  Lucky's very good but way over priced.  Same snooty attitude as Cava was except to repeat local customers.  Back to Cava, Carlitos and Dos Carlitos in Santa Ynez.  Fortunately Dos Carlitos has hired some locals so the service is a bit better.  Food on par with Carlitos just okay.  Seems less family members with entitled attitudes.  Still drop the plates and run away.  A short block away in Santa Ynez is Red Barn the blows Dos Carlitos out of the water.  In the opposite direction is The Willows also in Santa Ynez at Chumash.  Get a private room, service and food possibly the best 5 star restaurant between Montecito and Santa Ynez.  Surpasses Lucky's on Coast Village Road.  Best taco stand in the world is nothing special to look at but 10 minutes from Coast Village Rd.  La Superica on Milpas.  Be prepared for a line around the block and check out daily specials.  Holdren's on State Street great 4 star but not up to Brother's in Santa Ynez.  Upscale Mexican Restaurant on lower State Street heard excellent reviews.  Traveling up 101 no breakfast house beats Ellen's Pancake House in Buellton.  Ham steak and eggs, chicken fried steak and eggs-ask for apple cured bacon bits and hot sauce like Chulolo or Tapatio.  For seafood on upper State Street in La Cumber Shopping Center 5 star and great ambience but pricey.\nThere's a lot of new restaurants popping up to replace those that became mediocre.  Quick drive by of how packed they are and people waiting to get in pretty good indicator."}, {"review_stars": 1.0, "review_date": "2021-09-03 00:15:58", "review_text": "Extremely disappointed in recent take-out service. We have been customers since their opening. Recently have experienced them not answering phone wondering if there was phone issues. Physically went in and was told they had phone issues and weren't taking to-go orders while watching them seating guests for service, and this was 20 minutes prior to closing. Again, always great in house service,  but recently horrendous take-out service to include rude service and incorrect orders received discovered when brought home."}]}