{"question": "in word, how do i remove a row", "passages": "passage 1:Add or delete a table column or row. To add or delete columns and rows, right-click a row or column, and then click the command you want. You can also quickly add a row by clicking in the lower-right cell of the table and pressing the Tab key.Here are more detailed instructions.dd a column to the left or right. Right-click in a cell to the left or to the right of where you want to add a column. On the shortcut menu, point to Insert, and then click Insert Columns to the Left or Insert Columns to the Right.\n\npassage 2:Delete a row from a table in Microsoft Word 2007. Just as you can insert new rows and columns in pre-existing tables in Word 2007, you can delete rows and columns, whether they contain any data or not. This tutorial explains how to delete a row from a table in your Microsoft Word documents.You can either delete the content of a row, but keep the structural row inside the table, or delete the row and its content: this tutorial will show you how to both delete the content of rows, and how to delete rows themselves.elete a row from a table in Word 2007. If you want to remove both the row and its content, you can use the keyboard shortcut described above: select the row, and hit. .\n\npassage 3:Delete a row from a table in Word 2007. If you want to remove both the row and its content, you can use the keyboard shortcut described above: select the row, and hit. .But we will also show you another way to remove a row from a table, easier to remember: Right-click in a cell inside the row you would like to delete.From the context menu that opens, choose Delete Cells, and the Delete Cells dialog box will open. By default, Shift cells left is selected, so you first need to choose the  Delete entire row  option-then hit. (or click OK).elete a row from a table in Word 2007. If you want to remove both the row and its content, you can use the keyboard shortcut described above: select the row, and hit. .\n\n"}