{"question": "how to fix soft close toilet lid", "passages": "passage 1:A new toilet seat is also an inexpensive way to update a toilet. Lift up the lids that house the nuts holding the seat assembly in place (Image 1). Remove the bolt from each position (Image 2) and lift the toilet seat. Secure the new toilet seat in place with bolts (Image 3), and close the lid.djust a Loose Toilet Seat. Toilet lids can be poorly adjusted and may not stay in an upright position. There is usually no need to purchase a new seat and lid; you can simply adjust the lid so that it leans back against the wall or tank. Locate the nuts holding the seat and lid to the pan (Image 1).\n\npassage 2:Instructions. Study the design of your soft-close seat to determine which style you have. Look underneath the near the back of the bowl, below the hinge locations. If you see a see a wing nut or other type of retaining nut threaded onto a bolt, you can adjust the seat's position without removing the seat and lid.old the lid and seat together and pull upwards to lift them off the hinge pins. Take off the hinge caps to expose the hinge screws. Loosen the screws with a screwdriver just enough so you can adjust the hinges to reposition the seat. Temporarily reinstall the seat and lid by pressing them back down onto the hinge pins.\n\npassage 3:Hold the lid and seat together and pull upwards to lift them off the hinge pins. Take off the hinge caps to expose the hinge screws. Loosen the screws with a screwdriver just enough so you can adjust the hinges to reposition the seat. Temporarily reinstall the seat and lid by pressing them back down onto the hinge pins.Close the seat and lid, and align them with the front and sides of the bowl.old the lid and seat together and pull upwards to lift them off the hinge pins. Take off the hinge caps to expose the hinge screws. Loosen the screws with a screwdriver just enough so you can adjust the hinges to reposition the seat. Temporarily reinstall the seat and lid by pressing them back down onto the hinge pins.\n\n"}