{"question": "how to grow petunia indoor", "passages": "passage 1:Planting petunias is easiest when they are purchased as a mature plant that is ready plant outdoors or to be kept indoors. However, since petunias are annuals, this will need to be done each year, which can add up financially over the years.You can plant seeds that are much less expensive and then transplant the petunias to the outdoors when they're ready. Or you can continue to grow them indoors. Start this process in March or April.owever, since petunias are annuals, this will need to be done each year, which can add up financially over the years. You can plant seeds that are much less expensive and then transplant the petunias to the outdoors when they're ready. Or you can continue to grow them indoors.\n\npassage 2:Place petunia plants in the container on the soil and water lightly prior to filling container with soil. Cover the base of the petunia plants with remaining soil, slightly packing to ensure the root system is not exposed to air. Place in a spot where the petunias can receive at least five hours of sunlight a day.Direct, full sun is best. Water as necessary.Petunias like soil that is moist to slightly dry. Deadhead by removing spent blooms as necessary to promote new buds and encourage continuous blooming. Feed once a month with a balanced liquid fertilizer (8-8-8 or 10-10-10).ater as necessary. Petunias like soil that is moist to slightly dry. Deadhead by removing spent blooms as necessary to promote new buds and encourage continuous blooming. Feed once a month with a balanced liquid fertilizer (8-8-8 or 10-10-10).\n\npassage 3:Soil. Petunias grow well in almost any type of soil as long as the medium has good drainage. Make sure your petunia's container has a sufficient number of drainage holes to allow the excess water to escape. You could add a little peat moss to the soil to help your indoor plants better retain nutrients and moisture.oil. Petunias grow well in almost any type of soil as long as the medium has good drainage. Make sure your petunia's container has a sufficient number of drainage holes to allow the excess water to escape. You could add a little peat moss to the soil to help your indoor plants better retain nutrients and moisture.\n\n"}