{"question": "what happens after colon cancer diagnosis", "passages": "passage 1:Understanding Your Diagnosis. It is important that you understand your diagnosis because your diagnosis determines the treatment you will receive. Once your doctor tells you that you have colon or rectal cancer, your healthcare team will work together to determine what stage of diagnosis you have.For more info: get your free copy of Your Guide in the Fight.nce your doctor tells you that you have colon or rectal cancer, your healthcare team will work together to determine what stage of diagnosis you have. For more info: get your free copy of Your Guide in the Fight.\n\npassage 2:The process used to find out if cancer has spread within the colon or to other parts of the body is called staging. The information gathered from the staging process determines the stage of the disease. It is important to know the stage in order to plan treatment.The following tests and procedures may be used in the staging process: 1  CT scan (CAT scan): A procedure that makes a series of detailed pictures of areas inside the body, such as the abdomen, pelvis, or chest, taken from different angles. Chest x-ray: An x-ray of the organs and bones inside the chest. 2  An x-ray is a type of energy beam that can go through the body and onto film, making a picture of areas inside the body. 3  Surgery: A procedure to remove the tumor and see how far it has spread through the colon.\n\npassage 3:How cancer grows and spreads. Cancer is the growth of abnormal cells in the body. These extra cells grow together and form masses, called tumors. In colorectal cancer, these growths usually start as polyps in the large intestine (colon or rectum).If colon polyps aren't found and removed, they may turn into cancer.Cancers in the colon or rectum usually grow very slowly. It takes most of them years to become large enough to cause symptoms.If the cancer is allowed to grow, over time it will invade and destroy nearby tissues and then spread farther. Colorectal cancer spreads first to nearby lymph nodes.n colorectal cancer, these growths usually start as polyps in the large intestine (colon or rectum). If colon polyps aren't found and removed, they may turn into cancer. Cancers in the colon or rectum usually grow very slowly. It takes most of them years to become large enough to cause symptoms.\n\n"}