{"question": "youtube how to make lemon grass tea", "passages": "passage 1:Place the cut lemon grass sections in a large saucepan. Add 4 cups of water to the pan. Put the saucepan on the stove and turn on the heat to high. When the water boils, turn the heat off. Leave the pan on the burner of the stove. Wait 15 to 20 minutes while the lemon grass sections steep in the hot water.You will be able to smell the aroma of lemon grass tea throughout the house. Hold a strainer over a teacup and pour the hot lemon grass tea through the strainer into the cup. Sweeten the tea by stirring in a little agave syrup if you like.lace the cut lemon grass sections in a large saucepan. Add 4 cups of water to the pan. Put the saucepan on the stove and turn on the heat to high. When the water boils, turn the heat off. Leave the pan on the burner of the stove. Wait 15 to 20 minutes while the lemon grass sections steep in the hot water.\n\npassage 2:Similar to the above tea recipe with fresh lemongrass leaves, boil a cup of water and keep it ready. Add 2 teaspoons dried leaves (already crushed) in a saucepan. To this, pour boiling water and cover with a lid.Leave this mixture for steeping, at least for 10-15 minutes to get best flavor.ence, you will need lemongrass in large amounts to enjoy a strong flavored tea. Clean fresh lemongrass leaves, and cut them into pieces with a pair of scissors. Add \u00bd cup lemongrass in a large teapot, and pour 2 cups water over it.\n\npassage 3:Unlike ginger tea, which runs the risk of tasting harsh, lemongrass tea has a more subtle spice. We're declaring this the winter of lemongrass tea, and we think you should too. Making lemongrass tea is as simple as steeping a few stalks of lemongrass in boiling water for five to 10 minutes.You can sweeten the tea with honey or sugar, which tempers the spicy flavor, and you can serve the drink hot or cold.Use fresh lemongrass, cutting the stalks so that they'll fit in a single mug or inside a teapot if you want to make a couple cups.nlike ginger tea, which runs the risk of tasting harsh, lemongrass tea has a more subtle spice. We're declaring this the winter of lemongrass tea, and we think you should too. Making lemongrass tea is as simple as steeping a few stalks of lemongrass in boiling water for five to 10 minutes.\n\n"}