{"question": "how to get plastic out of clothes dryer", "passages": "passage 1:Instructions. Run the dryer on a regular setting for 20 minutes to soften the plastic. Scrape the plastic off with a wooden or plastic spatula or paint scraper, taking care not to damage the dryer's interior. Apply 1 to 2 tsp. nail polish remover to a clean cloth, and rub the plastic to dissolve it.Rub the area with a damp cloth to rinse the nail polish remover. Mix 1 tsp. liquid laundry soap with 1 cup water. Dip a clean cloth in this solution, and rub the area again.Rinse well with a cloth dipped in clean water.ave. Jupiterimages/BananaStock/Getty Images. A plastic coated bib or zip top bag gone astray probably won't melt in a dryer unless you're using the high heat setting, but if it does, it won't cause serious damage. Today's dryers are painted with a synthetic enamel coating that holds up well to heat and wear.\n\npassage 2:1 Answer from this member: This plastic will be extremely difficult to remove. You can try heating the plastic with a hair dryer or heat gun. Once it is heated, you may be able to peel off the plastic. You may not be able to get all of the plastic off. If not, you need to replace the drum or the entire dryer.If you want to replace the drum, I recommend calling a service technician to complete this type of repair.nce it is heated, you may be able to peel off the plastic. You may not be able to get all of the plastic off. If not, you need to replace the drum or the entire dryer. If you want to replace the drum, I recommend calling a service technician to complete this type of repair.\n\npassage 3: Remove the ice and using a plastic scraper, scrape the hardened  plastic off the coils. Soak a cloth in an acetone-based nail polish  remover and leave it on the element for 5 minutes. Use this cloth  to scrub the remaining plastic off of the element then wipe the  coils with a clean, damp cloth.Remove any remaining nail polish  remover residue with a cloth that has been dipped in a solution of  warm water and dish soap, then rinse the coils with water.se this cloth  to scrub the remaining plastic off of the element then wipe the  coils with a clean, damp cloth. Remove any remaining nail polish  remover residue with a cloth that has been dipped in a solution of  warm water and dish soap, then rinse the coils with water.\n\n"}