{"question": "how do you set up signatures in outloook", "passages": "passage 1:If you sign your emails the same way most of the time, you can create signatures in Outlook that you can attach to your emails. Easily create a signature for business emails and a different one for personal emails. To create a new signature, open Outlook and click the File tab.Click Options in the menu list on the left side of the Account Information screen. On the Outlook Options dialog box, click Mail in the list of options on the left side of the dialog box.On the Mail screen, click Signatures in the Compose messages section. Click New under the Select signature to edit box on the Signatures and Stationery dialog box.A dialog box displays asking for a name for this signature. Enter a descriptive name in the edit box and click OK.n the Mail screen, click Signatures in the Compose messages section. Click New under the Select signature to edit box on the Signatures and Stationery dialog box. A dialog box displays asking for a name for this signature. Enter a descriptive name in the edit box and click OK.\n\npassage 2:Start a new email in Outlook, click the Signature button and choose Signatures from the menu. Image courtesy of Microsoft. Click New and enter a name for your signature. Email recipients won't see this name -- it only serves to distinguish this signature from other signatures on your computer.hares & Saves. Save. Rather than writing out your name, title and contact info at the bottom of every email you send, create a signature in Outlook 2013, 2010 or 2007 to insert your information with two clicks. Set a signature as your default, and Outlook enters it in every new message you create.\n\npassage 3:To set up an email signature in Outlook 1  : Select Tools | Options... 2  from the menu in Outlook. 3  Go to the Mail Format tab. 4  Click Signatures... 5  under Signatures.6  Click New... . 7  Give the new signature a name.o set up an email signature in Outlook 1  : Select Tools | Options... 2  from the menu in Outlook. 3  Go to the Mail Format tab. 4  Click Signatures... 5  under Signatures.\n\n"}