{"question": "what does it take to be a good manager", "passages": "passage 1:1 If you do good work and you're an effective manager, you shouldn't worry about dressing up your laurels. 2  People will recognize the work that you do. 3  Even more important, they'll be impressed that you motivate your employees, know how to be humble, and stay out of the way.4  If you work hard, you'll get your dues. If your boss happens to mention to that worker that you said something good about them, they're likely to feel that you appreciate them and made the effort to put in a good word. 2  That sort of compliment doesn't go unnoticed. 3  Privately laud what your employees do well. 4  Tell them when you have a moment.\n\npassage 2:The goal of a good manager is to achieve stellar results (results you cannot achieve alone) through inspiring, leading, and developing your team. Developing skills to become a good people manager is not easy. Just because you were a good team member does not automatically make you a good manager.ecoming a good manager is a process. These 7 qualities of what makes a good manager is only the beginning to help you set a vision of how a good manager should behave. If you invest time, you will become a good manager over time.\n\npassage 3:This is an excellent question to ask as you are getting promoted to manage others or have already been managing for awhile. There are many managers out there, but there are few good ones. The goal of a good manager is to achieve stellar results through inspiring, leading, and developing your team.Developing skills to become a good manager is not easy. Just because you were a good team member does not automatically make you a good manager.One who leads or guides is considered a great leader.You have to possess leadership skills.eveloping skills to become a good manager is not easy. Just because you were a good team member does not automatically make you a good manager. One who leads or guides is considered a great leader. You have to possess leadership skills.\n\n"}