{"question": "how to auto power off pc", "passages": "passage 1:Control your computer resume from power-off state (hibernation). Wake up your computer from sleep mode (standby). Playback a keyboard and mouse macro, a useful feature for such as TV record. Run programs, close programs, open files and open URL at any specified time.Logs on system automatically (Win XP/Vista/7/8/8.1). Shutdown or reboot, log off, lock session, close monitor, make computer enter sleep mode (standby/hibernation) at any time. Synchronize your PC's time with an atomic clock server.More Features: Easy to use, install and configure the software in 2-10 minutes.un programs, close programs, open files and open URL at any specified time. Logs on system automatically (Win XP/Vista/7/8/8.1). Shutdown or reboot, log off, lock session, close monitor, make computer enter sleep mode (standby/hibernation) at any time. Synchronize your PC's time with an atomic clock server.\n\npassage 2:From LifSoft: An easy to use application that allows you to control your computer resume from power-off state (hibernation) or wake up your computer from sleep mode (stand by). Resume from power-off state-Allows you to control your computer auto start up and work in appointed time.y: Download.com staff on February 27, 2009. Although Windows includes a built-in scheduling utility, Auto Power-on and Shut-down simplifies such tasks. True to its name, the program mainly lets you schedule your PC to start up and shut down at regular intervals.\n\npassage 3:To automatically put your computer on standby. 1. Open Power Options in Control Panel. 2. In Power Schemes, click the down arrow, and then select a power scheme The time settings for the power scheme are displayed in System standby, Turn off monitor, and Turn off hard disks. 3.To turn off your monitor before your computer goes on standby, select a time in Turn off monitor. 4.. In Power Schemes, click the down arrow, and then select a power scheme The time settings for the power scheme are displayed in System standby, Turn off monitor, and Turn off hard disks. 3. To turn off your monitor before your computer goes on standby, select a time in Turn off monitor.\n\n"}