{"question": "what does a travel agent do", "passages": "passage 1:Travel agents book business and leisure travel for customers. As a travel agent you will sell holiday packages and give travel advice. Your role is to make travel planning easier, and to make sure your customers have the best trip possible.For this role you\u2019ll need to be well organised and have an eye for detail.ravel agents book business and leisure travel for customers. As a travel agent you will sell holiday packages and give travel advice. Your role is to make travel planning easier, and to make sure your customers have the best trip possible. For this role you\u2019ll need to be well organised and have an eye for detail.\n\npassage 2:Travel agents have a wide network of contacts and can provide cheaper fares, great hotel deals, cab rentals and many other travel related bookings which can be very useful for the average tourist. A travel agent may be an employee of a large travel agency or he may function independently.Further, he may be dealing in specialized areas such as vacation bookings, business travel, honeymoon travel or making exotic travel arrangements.At the basic level a travel agent make bookings to any destinations the people wish travel to.It could be traveling by train, ship or flight, the agent can suggest you the most suitable option and suggest the most convenient routes.ravel agents have a wide network of contacts and can provide cheaper fares, great hotel deals, cab rentals and many other travel related bookings which can be very useful for the average tourist. A travel agent may be an employee of a large travel agency or he may function independently.\n\npassage 3:A travel agency is a private retailer or public service that provides travel and tourism related services to the public on behalf of suppliers such as airlines, car rentals, cruise lines, hotels, railways, and package tours.areers [edit]. A travel agent may work for a travel agency or work freelance. With many people switching to self-service internet websites, the number of available jobs as travel agents is decreasing. Counteracting the decrease in jobs due to internet services is the increase in the number of people travelling.\n\n"}