{"question": "how to determine macros", "passages": "passage 1:Step 1: Calculate Your TDEE (daily calories required). The IIFYM macro calculator is first flexible dieting tool of its kind. We developed it to be the most comprehensive and easy to use fitness calculator for people following the IIFYM diet.The IIFYM Calculator takes the guess work out of dieting.All you have to do is enter your details, select your goals and retrieve your macros. We have added a few options in step 3 for those of you that like to manipulate your protein and fats, but the default settings are PERFECT for most people!If you are ready to use IIFYM for flexible dieting, this is the best tool you will find! Scroll down to get started with the IIFYM Macro Calculator now!e have added a few options in step 3 for those of you that like to manipulate your protein and fats, but the default settings are PERFECT for most people! If you are ready to use IIFYM for flexible dieting, this is the best tool you will find! Scroll down to get started with the IIFYM Macro Calculator now!\n\npassage 2:Step 4: Your Results. The IIFYM macro calculator is first flexible dieting tool of its kind. We developed it to be the most comprehensive and easy to use fitness calculator for people following the IIFYM diet. The IIFYM Calculator takes the guess work out of dieting.All you have to do is enter your details, select your goals and retrieve your macros. We have added a few options in step 3 for those of you that like to manipulate your protein and fats, but the default settings are PERFECT for most people!If you are ready to use IIFYM for flexible dieting, this is the best tool you will find! Scroll down to get started with the IIFYM Macro Calculator now!e have added a few options in step 3 for those of you that like to manipulate your protein and fats, but the default settings are PERFECT for most people! If you are ready to use IIFYM for flexible dieting, this is the best tool you will find! Scroll down to get started with the IIFYM Macro Calculator now!\n\npassage 3:Step 1: Calculate Your TDEE (daily calories required). The IIFYM macro calculator is first flexible dieting tool of its kind. We developed it to be the most comprehensive and easy to use fitness calculator for people following the IIFYM diet.The IIFYM Calculator takes the guess work out of dieting.All you have to do is enter your details, select your goals and retrieve your macros. We have added a few options in step 3 for those of you that like to manipulate your protein and fats, but the default settings are PERFECT for most people!acro Calculator. The IIFYM macro calculator is first flexible dieting tool of its kind. We developed it to be the most comprehensive and easy to use fitness calculator for people following the IIFYM diet. The IIFYM Calculator takes the guess work out of dieting.\n\n"}