{"question": "how to add sheet after active sheet vba", "passages": "passage 1:If I use the function Sheets.Add it just names it something like Sheet2 etc naming it greater then the last sheet created. So I cannot access this sheet from within the same macro. Is there a way to Create and name a worksheet at the same time.Well, the first thing, is use Objects.f I use the function Sheets.Add it just names it something like Sheet2 etc naming it greater then the last sheet created. So I cannot access this sheet from within the same macro. Is there a way to Create and name a worksheet at the same time.Well, the first thing, is use Objects.\n\npassage 2:Adding worksheets to Excel is very simple. For example, to add a Worksheet after the active sheet (default unless stated otherwise), name it MySheet and have it become the active sheet, you would use some code like shown below;If we wanted to add a Worksheet as the last Worksheet and name it MySheet we would use;The Add Method as it applies to the Worksheet Object also has a Before Variant as well as an After Variant. However, we can only nominate a Before or After Variant, or omit the Argument altogether.If we do omit the Before and After Variants Excel places the Worksheet after the current active Sheet.f we wanted to add a Worksheet as the last Worksheet and name it MySheet we would use; The Add Method as it applies to the Worksheet Object also has a Before Variant as well as an After Variant. However, we can only nominate a Before or After Variant, or omit the Argument altogether.\n\npassage 3:Worksheets.Add. We can insert a new worksheet after a specified sheet by the Worksheets.Add method with setting the After parameter. In this macro, I am setting the ActiveSheet property to the After parameter.So the new worksheet will be created after an active sheet.orksheets.Add. We can insert a new worksheet after a specified sheet by the Worksheets.Add method with setting the After parameter. In this macro, I am setting the ActiveSheet property to the After parameter.\n\n"}