{"question": "what are each vitamin good for", "passages": "passage 1:Together, the B vitamins work together to help maximize your cellular energy production and support your body\u2019s many vital processes. \u2020. B vitamins are also important for normal nervous system function. Additionally, vitamin B 6 and vitamin B 12 are essential for healthy red blood cell formation.Folic acid (also known as B 9), is important for women of childbearing age; it plays a critical role in the proper development of the baby\u2019s nervous system.ogether, the B vitamins work together to help maximize your cellular energy production and support your body\u2019s many vital processes. \u2020. B vitamins are also important for normal nervous system function. Additionally, vitamin B 6 and vitamin B 12 are essential for healthy red blood cell formation.\n\npassage 2:Vitamin D helps your body absorb calcium. Some water pills increase the amount of calcium in the body. Taking large amounts of vitamin D along with some water pills might cause to be too much calcium in the body. This could cause serious side effects including kidney problems.itamin D helps your body absorb calcium. Some water pills increase the amount of calcium in the body. Taking large amounts of vitamin D along with some water pills might cause to be too much calcium in the body. This could cause serious side effects including kidney problems.\n\npassage 3:VITAMIN A (Retinol, retinal, and retinoic acid \u2014 three active forms of vitamin A in the body \u2014 are retinoids, preformed vitamin A. Beta carotene can easily be converted to vitamin A as needed.). Essential for vision Lycopene may lower prostate cancer risk.Keeps tissues and skin healthy.ITAMIN C (ascorbic acid). Foods rich in vitamin C may lower the risk for some cancers, including those of the mouth, esophagus, stomach, and breast. Long-term use of supplemental vitamin C may protect against cataracts. Helps make collagen, a connective tissue that knits together wounds and supports blood vessel walls.\n\n"}