{"question": "how to sew a zipper gusset", "passages": "passage 1:If it is the heavy plastic kind, you can make a casing in the side seams by stitching the outer edge of the gusset and that back side seam. Then, slide that boning right down into that casing. Then, I push the seam allowance to the back and tack that casing to the lining, if necessary, so it doesn\u2019t move.ou\u2019ll be making two gussets: one for each side seam, so that is why you divide the number in half. In this case that means 2\u2033. You are basically going to add 2 total inches to the left side of your dress and 2 total inches to the right side. Measure out to the left of that main dot one inch and make a second dot.\n\npassage 2:Make a zipper sandwich. Place 1 piece of lining fabric face up, then the zipper and then the outer fabric right side facing down. Line up the three edges. With a zipper foot sew across the top between the edge of your zipper sandwich and the zipper teeth (closer to the zipper feet).When finished and you pull fabric back it will look like this. Repeat this for the other side(edge) of the zipper. Oops the fabric should go all the way to the end of the zipper.ake a zipper sandwich. Place 1 piece of lining fabric face up, then the zipper and then the outer fabric right side facing down. Line up the three edges. With a zipper foot sew across the top between the edge of your zipper sandwich and the zipper teeth (closer to the zipper feet).\n\npassage 3:Trace all pattern to the rest of the fabric and cut. Make a few stitches near the top stop of the zipper. Pin the zipper gusset to the zipper (1/4\u2033 away from the center) with right side facing each other. Change the presser foot to zipper foot, sew a line near to the seam line to secure the position.Place the zipper gusset lining on top of them with right side facing down. Stitch on the seam line.Flip the lining to the bottom of main zipper gusset, top stitch near the seam line. Repeat sewing another side of the zipper gusset.The width of the zipper in between the gusset should measure 1/2\u2033. Change the presser foot back to normal foot, stitch on the seam allowance around the zipper gusset so that the main and lining fabric attach together nicely.lip lightly on the piping seam allowance at the curve. Place the zipper gusset on the pencil case body, with the ends align to the center markings. Sew from marking to marking at both ends. Place the lining on top of them with right side facing down.\n\n"}