{"question": "how to build a custom exhaust system", "passages": "passage 1:This article will show you how to build a custom exhaust system from the headers to the tail pipe. We will use two small mufflers on each side to improve the appearance and flow characteristics and three inch diameter exhaust pipe.1. The first thing to look at is the angle of the header collector flanges.In this case, the passenger side is pointing inward and slightly down, and the driver side is pointing almost straight back and down. We want both to point straight back and parallel to the ground.. The first thing to look at is the angle of the header collector flanges. In this case, the passenger side is pointing inward and slightly down, and the driver side is pointing almost straight back and down. We want both to point straight back and parallel to the ground.\n\npassage 2:Follow us in this article\u2019s pictorial section on how we get a 3\u201d all stainless steel system built for a 520 whp turbo powered Sentra SE-R. As no 3\u201d pre-fabricated system is made for this car, we will have to build our own. The Muffler. The key part of your exhaust system is the muffler.ollow us in this article\u2019s pictorial section on how we get a 3\u201d all stainless steel system built for a 520 whp turbo powered Sentra SE-R. As no 3\u201d pre-fabricated system is made for this car, we will have to build our own. The Muffler. The key part of your exhaust system is the muffler.\n\npassage 3:We recommend the same size catalytic converter as the rest of your piping. For turbo setups, you would also need a high flow downpipe. The downpipe connects to either the turbo exhaust turbine or to the turbo o2 housing. Hopefully this guide gives you some insight into how to build your own exhaust system.It's a pretty basic instruction set, but with so many different exhaust setups and requirements, we figured the write up would have to be.he downpipe connects to either the turbo exhaust turbine or to the turbo o2 housing. Hopefully this guide gives you some insight into how to build your own exhaust system. It's a pretty basic instruction set, but with so many different exhaust setups and requirements, we figured the write up would have to be.\n\n"}