{"question": "how do i use encryption in win10", "passages": "passage 1:Part 2: How to encrypt Windows 10 offline files. 1. Once you choose Encrypt your offline files, a new dialog Offline Files will appear. 2. Choose Encryption on menu, and click Encrypt tab. Click OK. If you want to decrypt it later, just click Unencrypt tab next to Encrypt.art 4: Encrypt Windows 10 files by preventing specific user from files or folders. On folder Properties, you also can make specific permissions for specific user. Surely, you can deny access and editing on the folder. 1. Tab Security in Music Properties dialog.\n\npassage 2:Step 1: To set up BitLocker Drive Encryption, hit Start, type BitLocker, then click Manage BitLocker. Step 2: Select the drive that you want to encrypt, and click Turn on BitLocker. Step 3: Select how you want to unlock the drive, either by password or by smartcard.Step 4: Choose where you want to save the recovery key in case you forget your password.Step 5: Choose whether you want to encrypt the entire drive, or only the used space.This will determine how fast your drive works when encrypted. Once you click start encrypting, Windows will work on securing your drive. Once complete, only those with the password will be able to access the drive.tep 5: Choose whether you want to encrypt the entire drive, or only the used space. This will determine how fast your drive works when encrypted. Once you click start encrypting, Windows will work on securing your drive. Once complete, only those with the password will be able to access the drive.\n\npassage 3:Part 3: How to encrypt contents in file or folder to secure Windows 10 data. This way is intended to encrypt contents in file or folder with default file encryption certificates. 1. Right click the folder you want to encrypt contents. And click Properties.art 4: Encrypt Windows 10 files by preventing specific user from files or folders. On folder Properties, you also can make specific permissions for specific user. Surely, you can deny access and editing on the folder. 1. Tab Security in Music Properties dialog.\n\n"}