{"question": "how to cook salmon on skillet with skin", "passages": "passage 1:1 Place the salmon fillet skin side down on the pan. 2  Let it cook, undisturbed, for 2 minutes (if it's a thin fillet) and up to 4 minutes (if it's a thick 2-inch fillet). 3  Don't touch it (the skin might stick and tear); set an alarm instead.4  While it's cooking, liberally sprinkle salt over the top of the fish. Let the oil heat through, about a minute. 2  Place the salmon fillet skin side down on the pan. 3  Let it cook, undisturbed, for 2 minutes (if it's a thin fillet) and up to 4 minutes (if it's a thick 2-inch fillet).\n\npassage 2:Bring the salmon to room temperature 10 minutes before cooking. Warm a large nonstick skillet with oil over medium-low heat. Season the fish with salt and pepper. Raise the heat to medium-high. Place the salmon, skin-side up in the pan.Cook until golden brown on 1 side, about 4 minutes. Turn the fish over with a spatula, and cook until it feels firm to the touch and the skin is crisp if desired, about 3 minutes more.The skin can be served or removed easily with a knife or spoon.ring the salmon to room temperature 10 minutes before cooking. Warm a large nonstick skillet with oil over medium-low heat. Season the fish with salt and pepper. Raise the heat to medium-high. Place the salmon, skin-side up in the pan.\n\npassage 3:Directions. Heat a large non-stick pan over high with olive oil. Liberally season salmon with salt and pepper. Place skin side down in pan and reduce heat to medium-low. Do not move fillets. Allow to cook about 7 minutes or until well browned and cooked about three quarters of the way through.Turn fillets and cook about 3 minutes more, or until still just barely pink in the center.Serve immediately, with the skin side up.lace skin side down in pan and reduce heat to medium-low. Do not move fillets. Allow to cook about 7 minutes or until well browned and cooked about three quarters of the way through. Turn fillets and cook about 3 minutes more, or until still just barely pink in the center. Serve immediately, with the skin side up.\n\n"}