{"name": "Stella Mare's", "address": "50 Los Patos Way", "city": "Santa Barbara", "state": "CA", "categories": "American (Traditional), American (New), French, Restaurants", "hours": {"Tuesday": "17:0-21:0", "Wednesday": "17:0-21:0", "Thursday": "17:0-21:0", "Friday": "17:0-21:0", "Saturday": "17:0-21:0"}, "attributes": {"BusinessParking": {"garage": false, "street": false, "validated": false, "lot": true, "valet": false}, "RestaurantsReservations": true, "OutdoorSeating": true, "WiFi": "free", "RestaurantsTakeOut": true, "RestaurantsGoodForGroups": true, "Music": null, "Ambience": {"touristy": false, "hipster": false, "romantic": true, "divey": false, "intimate": false, "trendy": false, "upscale": false, "classy": true, "casual": false}}, "business_stars": 4.5, "review_info": [{"review_stars": 5.0, "review_date": "2021-12-22 21:27:40", "review_text": "Absolutely a beautiful French restaurant with history on the water. If you're dining at night, choose the greenhouse seating. They have string lights all over, making it a wonderful experience. It's still indoors, and heated so we did not feel cold even in December. The service was excellent and struck up a conversation with our waitress that also previously lived in the SF bay area. The food was excellent and pricing was so affordable. The lamb shank was near fall off the bone, and very tender and flavorful. Will return!"}, {"review_stars": 4.0, "review_date": "2021-12-16 23:18:54", "review_text": "Such an adorable place, it reminds me of my grandmother's house with all the floral patterns, the decor is for sure very welcoming. \n\nWe went there for a friend's birthday brunch. We were driving from LA to Santa Barbara for a day trip and were running late so we called them on our way and told them we would be 15 minutes late and they were very accommodating.\n\nAs soon as we arrived, we were welcomed by the host and taken to our table outside, it was a little cold so we asked if we could move inside and they had one table available which they set for us.\n\nThey brought us warm sourdough bread and freshly baked mini blueberry muffins, the muffins were delicious. \n\nI ordered the CROQUE MADAME which comes with a sunny-side-up egg, parts of the egg white were not cooked and I had to separate them, I am pretty sure I have seen it in many culinary shows that you should not serve the eggs with the white still raw. The rest of the sandwich was good. I was going to take a star away for this but we had such a pleasant experience that I decided not to.\n\nfirst, we spent around 4.5 hours there and they still didn't try to throw us out! Second, the waiter was very sweet, he brought my friend a dessert with a little candle at the end that we appreciated a lot.\n\nAll in all, it was a pleasant experience and I will go back again but probably won't order the same food."}, {"review_stars": 4.0, "review_date": "2021-12-16 21:56:01", "review_text": "My father-in-law and his fianc\u00e9e both had birthdays in November, so Matt B. and I took them out to dinner at Stella Mare's the night before Thanksgiving. It was a cold and dark out, even for our 6:15 reservation, and the restaurant was lovely, with a warm, cozily upscale atmosphere. We ate in a greenhouse room with high ceilings, tons of windows, and a fireplace. Service was good, and we enjoyed a pleasant meal. Even our 20-month-old had a swell time, though at some point, he insisted on walking around and hanging out by the fireplace. (He was mercifully well behaved, but did make eyes at the other diners.)\n\nWe started with a round of cocktails, which were pretty solid. I had a Smoky Margarita with smoky chili-infused tequila, house sweet and sour, and agave, finished with a spicy rim and a grilled lime wheel. Matt had L'Ancien, with Remy Martin cognac, Bulleit rye whiskey, sweet vermouth, Benedictine, and Angostura and Peychaud's bitters. We switched to wine for the rest of our meal. I forget what exactly, but some kind of nice red, no complaints there.\n\nThe food was classic hearty bistro fare without much trendy flourish, ideal for dinner with grandparents, plus there was a kids' menu for our toddler--we ordered him pasta with butter and parmesan, but I think he mostly ate bread from the complimentary basket. The rest of us started with the cheese plate and deviled eggs. The cheese plate came with three unidentified but tasty cheeses, accompanied by crostini, strawberry slices, golden raisins, and some kind of fruit jam. The deviled eggs, or oeufs mimosa au homard, were quite good, supple and topped with lobster tail slices, tobiko, pickled shallots, and dill, perched on a slab of toasted French baguette over a bed of arugula and olive oil.\n\nFor our entr\u00e9es, Matt and I split the canard a l'orange and the filet mignon. The duck breast was cooked a touch more than we like, but it was otherwise decent, served with parsnip pur\u00e9e, roasted broccoli florets, charred red wine-braised shallots, orange gastrique, candied orange zest, and pea shoots. The steak was tender and satisfying. We got it with the cognac peppercorn sauce and it came with a heap of thin fries.\n\nSince we were celebrating, we ordered dessert. I got the lemon cake, which was light and bright, with lemon curd filling, caramelized mascarpone cream, and vanilla sauce. I also tried a bit of my father-in-law's cr\u00eape Suzette, which was great, with housemade cr\u00eapes, Grand Marnier, orange reduction, orange segments, and powdered sugar. Matt got some McConnell's vanilla bean ice cream, which he shared with our son--baby's first hesitant taste of ice cream.\n\nI liked Stella Mare's and would be happy to come back. It feels like a place that will be around forever, and I look forward to more family dinners in that elegant greenhouse."}]}