{"name": "Smithy Kitchen + Bar", "address": "7 E Anapamu St", "city": "Santa Barbara", "state": "CA", "categories": "American (New), Restaurants, Mediterranean", "hours": {"Monday": "0:0-0:0", "Tuesday": "16:0-21:0", "Wednesday": "16:0-21:0", "Thursday": "16:0-21:0", "Friday": "16:0-22:0", "Saturday": "16:0-22:0", "Sunday": "16:0-21:0"}, "attributes": {"BusinessParking": {"garage": true, "street": false, "validated": false, "lot": false, "valet": false}, "RestaurantsReservations": true, "OutdoorSeating": true, "WiFi": "no", "RestaurantsTakeOut": false, "RestaurantsGoodForGroups": true, "Music": null, "Ambience": {"touristy": false, "hipster": false, "romantic": false, "divey": false, "intimate": false, "trendy": false, "upscale": false, "classy": true, "casual": false}}, "business_stars": 3.5, "review_info": [{"review_stars": 1.0, "review_date": "2019-05-04 22:57:55", "review_text": "1. My girlfriend and I were here on a Wednesday night at around 5:30pm for happy hour and there were only 2 other groups in the whole restaurant. Despite this, the greeter offered us the choice of two high-top tables in the corner or the bar... Normally, this would be no problem, but the weather was great and we didn't understand why we couldn't sit out back in the patio area... Oh well. \n\n2. Once we were seated, the table was dirty (sticky, food remnants still on the table). Again, no problem, we just brushed the food off ourselves and didn't really think anything of it. \n\n3. From the happy hour menu, we ordered the blistered brussel sprouts, mussels, and fried chicken with a glass of red and a Scrimshaw. The brussels sprouts and mussels were alright, but the chicken was inedible -- really inedible. I don't know about you, but normally when you order fried chicken you would expect it to be, oh, I don't know, FRIED! What we actually received were charred pieces of who knows what part of the chicken smothered in some kind of sauce you might expect of General Tso's chicken from a cheap Chinese food carry-out place. Seriously it was bad... When you put the chicken in your mouth it was nearly impossible to chew and tasted as if it had been scraped off the bottom of a frying pan with a pry bar. The scrimshaw I ordered was fine, but my girlfriend said her glass of house red wine was super bitter. The water tasted great!! Unfortunately, they were never refilled them and the glasses sat empty for the majority of our time there. \n\n4. The service was equally as atrocious as the chicken. As I said, the place was nearly empty, but it took well over 30 minutes to get our food (remember, we just ordered apps from the happy hour menu). When I told our server about the chicken, he laughed and said \"yeah, I thought it looked like there was something wrong with it\". \n\n5. To top everything off, the place was just absolutely filthy! I've worked in hotels before, so I know the deal with commercial cleaning and this was REALLY bad... As I said in the beginning, the table was sticky (so sticky that my wallet got stuck to it and pulled a little piece of paint off the table) and there was still food remnants left from the previous guests because it obviously hadn't been wiped. Forget the table though, just look around a little and you will see that the place is just CAKED in dust. Air vents, light fixtures, windowsills, and even the crossbars underneath the hightop tables. Dusting is one of the easiest things you can do in a commercial space to make a place \"appear\" clean, and they weren't even doing that. If the front-of-house was this dirty, I can only imagine what the kitchen and dish pit looks like. \n\nAll in all, steer clear! I really felt bad for the 2 or 3 groups that walked in after us... DO NOT let the hipster decorations or their fancy website fool you!"}, {"review_stars": 5.0, "review_date": "2019-04-16 03:16:53", "review_text": "We did our rehearsal dinner at Smithy's.  We sat in the courtyard at the 20 person table.  We had very intense critics within our group - frenchmen that were previous chefs and have an eye for great food an ambiance.\n\nLet's just say they loved the food.  They absolutely raved about how delicious it was.  When the sun set and the twinkle lights came on, they were blown away by the beauty of the courtyard.  In the daytime, the white courtyard is also stunning. \n\nHannah was great with making a menu for us.  There were actually beautiful flowers on the table that made the evening so classic.  Thank you for the great dinner on such an important wedding weekend for us!"}, {"review_stars": 2.0, "review_date": "2019-04-12 22:50:44", "review_text": "Great looking place w/really nice bar area and outdoor patio.  Food fair at best.  Prices were way too high !  My wife ordered the skirt steak medium.  It came back mooing.  Waitress took the dish back to re-grill.  After 15 or more minutes, I left the table to see what was going on with her dinner.  The three of us who did receive our dinners together were almost done with our meals.  Not a very comfortable scenario.  When I asked where the steak was the waitress said it was still cooking.  I told her that \"by now it's probably black and charred\".  She asked me what I wanted to do and I said \"bring the steak now\".  The steak was delivered to the table and it wasn't burnt, but it was almost not eatable.  It was tough as nails.  They comped us dessert and took the steak off the bill, which was nice and it was the right thing to do.  But, the experience was not pleasant.  We didn't go out to dinner to get a refund or excuses.  I ordered Mary's Chicken.  I'm not sure Mary really wanted her chicken to be dry as sandpaper.  One very small (skin on) breast cut in two pieces with one small boneless thigh.  Sauce was supposed to be a honey glaze.  Not quite sure if that ever made it to the chicken.  Some glazed carrots on the side.  For $22 for a chicken dish....come on !  Bread for an extra charge was ridiculous and the bread was terrible. I really do hope this place shapes up and makes it.  Again, the space was very nice, but there's something not right over there."}]}