{"question": "show me how can i make gragh for my research", "passages": "passage 1:A bar graph, also known as a bar chart, is a graph that uses rectangular bars to represent different values to show comparisons among categories, such as the amount of rainfall that occurred during different months of a year, or the average salary in different states.ollect your data. The first thing you have to do is to collect all of your data. Remember that a bar graph should show a comparison among categories. Let's say your goal is to organize data on how many inches of rainfall a city received between the months of February 2005 and February 2006.\n\npassage 2:And now we'll learn how to make a graph. In science, graphs normally show comparisons of two or more things. Two types of graphs that are often used in science fair projects are bar graphs and line graphs. If you want, you may use graph paper to help you make a great graph you can be proud of.Let's go over how to make a graph both ways. Bar graph. Normally used to compare groups or types, a really nice bar graph will give great visual visual representation of your information and add color to your display.Here's how to make one... 1. First, you'll need to title it and find out how high your graph needs to go.ar graph. Normally used to compare groups or types, a really nice bar graph will give great visual visual representation of your information and add color to your display. Here's how to make one... 1. First, you'll need to title it and find out how high your graph needs to go.\n\npassage 3:If you still think the story of the data is unclear, you can always use the pie chart as your backup. With that said, here are a few cases when pie charts work best: 1  When you have only a few data points to display, and each one is substantially different in scale.he y-axis will have a scale, and each bar\u2019s height should be proportionate to the size of the category it represents. This can create a problem if you have very disproportionate responses that impact the scale of your graph, so keep that in mind when formatting.\n\n"}