{"question": "the world in ten years from now", "passages": "passage 1:1 In the next decade upwards of 100 billion objects from smartphones to street lamps and our cars will be connected together via a vast \u2018internet of everything\u2019. 2  This will impact every aspect of our lives-for example it could transform the criminal justice system. Advances in AI will gather pace in the next decade. 2  For example, by 2025, the interfaces to all our devices from phones to computers, cars and home appliances will be highly intelligent and adaptive-learning from our behaviours and choices and anticipating our needs. 3  Internet of Life.\n\npassage 2:1 Internet of Life. 2  In the next decade upwards of 100 billion objects from smartphones to street lamps and our cars will be connected together via a vast \u2018internet of everything\u2019.3  This will impact every aspect of our lives-for example it could transform the criminal justice system. Advances in AI will gather pace in the next decade. 2  For example, by 2025, the interfaces to all our devices from phones to computers, cars and home appliances will be highly intelligent and adaptive-learning from our behaviours and choices and anticipating our needs. 3  Internet of Life.\n\npassage 3:We're just at the beginning of the beginning of all these kind of changes. There's a sense that all the big things have happened, but relatively speaking, nothing big has happened yet. In 20 years from now we'll look back and say, 'Well, nothing really happened in the last 20 years.'.The Edge Kevin Kelly. The world is hitting its stride in technological advances, and futurists have been making wild-sounding bets on what we'll accomplish in the not-so-distant future.e're just at the beginning of the beginning of all these kind of changes. There's a sense that all the big things have happened, but relatively speaking, nothing big has happened yet. In 20 years from now we'll look back and say, 'Well, nothing really happened in the last 20 years.'.\n\n"}