{"question": "how to cook pork sirloin roast in oven", "passages": "passage 1:Heat the tablespoon of oil in the skillet until it just begins to smoke. Add the pork sirloin roast and brown it on all sides. Place it in the baking dish. Roast the pork in the oven for approximately 50 to 70 minutes, turning the pork over in the pan after about 35 minutes of the cooking time has elapsed.Remove the roast from the oven when the instant-read meat thermometer registers between 145 and 150 degrees in the thickest portion of the meat.ips. 1  Alter the flavor of your pork sirloin roast by rubbing the meat with different herbs and spices before browning. 2  You can also baste the roast during its time in the oven with stock or wine every 15 minutes for additional flavor. 3  Cooking pork longer isn't better -- you'll only end up with tough, grayish meat.\n\npassage 2:Directions. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Take the pork out of the refrigerator 45 minutes before you are ready to roast to allow the pork to come to temperature. Place the pork into a roasting pan fitted with a rack or onto a baking sheet, fat side up, and season with salt and pepper.Put in the oven and roast for 1 hour.Meanwhile, make the glaze. In a saucepan over medium-high heat, bring the apple juice to a boil and reduce it by half, about 10 minutes.lace the pork into a roasting pan fitted with a rack or onto a baking sheet, fat side up, and season with salt and pepper. Put in the oven and roast for 1 hour. Meanwhile, make the glaze. In a saucepan over medium-high heat, bring the apple juice to a boil and reduce it by half, about 10 minutes.\n\npassage 3:Step 4. Roast the pork in the oven for approximately 50 to 70 minutes, turning the pork over in the pan after about 35 minutes of the cooking time has elapsed. Remove the roast from the oven when the instant-read meat thermometer registers between 145 and 150 degrees in the thickest portion of the meat.ips. 1  Alter the flavor of your pork sirloin roast by rubbing the meat with different herbs and spices before browning. 2  You can also baste the roast during its time in the oven with stock or wine every 15 minutes for additional flavor. 3  Cooking pork longer isn't better -- you'll only end up with tough, grayish meat.\n\n"}