{"question": "how to attach multiple picture frames together", "passages": "passage 1:Table-stand Grouping. Select two or three frames of the same wood molding. For joining two together, use identical frames. For joining three together, choose either three of the same or one which is larger to be the middle frame. Lay them beside each other to see if you like the effect.Put two frames together back to back, and mark the hinge placement.The placement must be the same distance from the bottom edges of each frame to ensure that the grouped pictures stand securely on the table top. Attach two small hinges to the connecting sides of the frames.ut two frames together back to back, and mark the hinge placement. The placement must be the same distance from the bottom edges of each frame to ensure that the grouped pictures stand securely on the table top. Attach two small hinges to the connecting sides of the frames.\n\npassage 2:Figuring out how to hang multiple pictures together can be a little overwhelming. With these tips, however, you can make short order of the mission and transform your space with a stunning group of wall art.Test ideas by laying the group of multiple pictures out on the floor first.iguring out how to hang multiple pictures together can be a little overwhelming. With these tips, however, you can make short order of the mission and transform your space with a stunning group of wall art. Test ideas by laying the group of multiple pictures out on the floor first.\n\npassage 3:Screw the frame to the backer board. Repeat with each frame. Save time by having the pictures all ready in the frames. You can always unscrew them at a later date to change the picture if you want. Attach a hanging wire to the back, hang it up and step back and enjoy the results.ut two frames together back to back, and mark the hinge placement. The placement must be the same distance from the bottom edges of each frame to ensure that the grouped pictures stand securely on the table top. Attach two small hinges to the connecting sides of the frames.\n\n"}