{"question": "what causes necrotizing fasciitis", "passages": "passage 1:Necrotizing Fasciitis Causes. Necrotizing fasciitis is caused by bacteria in the vast majority of cases, though fungi can also rarely lead to this condition as well.Many cases of necrotizing fasciitis are caused by group A beta-hemolytic streptococci (Streptococcus pyogenes), either individually or along with other bacterial pathogens.Group A streptococcus is the same bacteria responsible for  strep throat , impetigo (skin infection), and rheumatic fever.n many cases of necrotizing fasciitis, there is a history of prior trauma, such as a cut, scrape, insect bite, burn, or needle puncture wound. These lesions may initially appear trivial or minor. Surgical incision sites and various surgical procedures may also serve as a source of infection.\n\npassage 2:Causes of Necrotizing Fasciitis. Necrotizing fasciitis is commonly caused by group A Streptococcus (GAS) bacteria. That's the same type of bacteria that causes strep throat.However, several types of bacteria, such as staphylococcus and others, have also been associated with the disease.Necrotizing fasciitis occurs when such bacteria infect the superficial fascia, a layer of connective tissue below the skin.owever, several types of bacteria, such as staphylococcus and others, have also been associated with the disease. Necrotizing fasciitis occurs when such bacteria infect the superficial fascia, a layer of connective tissue below the skin.\n\npassage 3:Necrotizing fasciitis is caused by several kinds of bacteria. Some of these bacteria also cause infections such as strep throat and impetigo. Usually the infections caused by these bacteria are mild.But in rare cases they can cause a more dangerous infection.ecrotizing fasciitis is an infection caused by bacteria. It can destroy skin, fat, and the tissue covering the muscles within a very short time. The disease sometimes is called flesh-eating bacteria. When it occurs on the genitals, it is called Fournier gangrene. Necrotizing fasciitis is very rare but serious.\n\n"}