{"question": "why don't the emails i move to a folder show up on my iphone5", "passages": "passage 1:1 If you set up the IMAP mail account on your iPhone, you may not find the IMAP folders in your Inbox folder. 2  If this is the case, you'll need to specify the IMAP path prefix.3  Enter the word INBOX (use all caps) and save the setting. 4  Now, your folders should appear as subfolders in the Inbox.ow to subscribe to folders. 1  If you set up the IMAP mail account on your iPhone, you may not find the IMAP folders in your Inbox folder. 2  Enter the word INBOX (use all caps) and save the setting.\n\npassage 2:SOLUTION. Navigate to your email account's settings. 1  Go To Settings (Gear icon). 2  Tap Mail, Contacts, Calendars. 3  Select your email account (You will want to make sure this is set for all your IMAP accounts.). 4  Tap Account Info (in iOS 8, tap the item named Account [your email address]).5  Tap Advanced (At the very bottom.OLUTION. Navigate to your email account's settings. 1  Go To Settings (Gear icon). 2  Tap Mail, Contacts, Calendars. 3  Select your email account (You will want to make sure this is set for all your IMAP accounts.). 4  Tap Account Info (in iOS 8, tap the item named Account [your email address]). 5  Tap Advanced (At the very bottom.\n\npassage 3:The Inbox is the main folder all your mail goes into unless you have moved it to a new folder or used a third-party app to filter incoming mail to specific folders. In this case, the Inbox view will not show you all the new mail, and you need to view the folders you have for your accounts.This is easily done and you don't need to install any new applications. Step 1. Tap the Mail icon on the iPhone to launch the email application.Step 2. Scroll down the Mailboxes screen until you see the Accounts section. This is the section below the Inboxes section.ap the Mail icon on the iPhone to launch the email application. Step 2. Scroll down the Mailboxes screen until you see the Accounts section. This is the section below the Inboxes section.\n\n"}