{"question": "what to do in nyc with kids when is rainy", "passages": "passage 1:It is constantly raining in NYC this summer and only in New York do 100s of umbrella salesmen appear on the streets seemingly from thin air. A good rain in Manhattan can put a damper on your vacation or day of exploring the city.You do not have to sit in your apartment or hotel due to the weather, explore one of these 10 options: 10. Grand Central Terminal. 42nd St and Park Avenue. good rain in Manhattan can put a damper on your vacation or day of exploring the city. You do not have to sit in your apartment or hotel due to the weather, explore one of these 10 options: 10. Grand Central Terminal. 42nd St and Park Avenue.\n\npassage 2:If your child needs to burn of energy on a rainy day, several indoor place centers are available in the New York City area. Funtasia (funtasianyc.com) is a jungle-themed indoor play area with free play times on certain days of the week. BounceU (bounceu.com) offers bounce houses and other inflatable play areas for kids.nother option is the Children's Museum of Manhattan (www.cmom.org). The museum's areas include PlayWorks, designed for kids up to age 4. All displays are bright, colorful and child-friendly. The New York City Fire Museum (nycfiremuseum.org) appeals to young children who love fire trucks and firefighters.\n\npassage 3:When you\u2019re visiting New York and the forecast suggests a downpour, you might have to adjust your schedule a bit. Luckily, New York City has plenty of indoor things to do! To help you plan a day out in New York City on a rainy day, we\u2019ll highlight some of the best indoor activities in the city ! Museums.New York, being the massive city it is, offers some of the most famous and largest museums in the world.For a day out in rainy New York City, we\u2019ve selected four museums that are all exciting and have enough exhibitions on display to last you at least a couple of hours!ew York, being the massive city it is, offers some of the most famous and largest museums in the world. For a day out in rainy New York City, we\u2019ve selected four museums that are all exciting and have enough exhibitions on display to last you at least a couple of hours!\n\n"}