{"question": "how to cook a steak medium well on a charcoal grill", "passages": "passage 1:Hour is the minimum and I won\u2019t go beyond two hours. When it comes time to cook, you can cook it on your grill or sear it in a nice hot cast iron pan (this is what I did). I cooked my steak for 3 1/2 minutes on one side and 3 minutes on the other and it was perfectly done for me.But that might be different in your setting.Using a thermometer and learning to know how the meat \u201cfeels\u201d when cooked to your desired temperature is how to learn to cook your perfect steak.our is the minimum and I won\u2019t go beyond two hours. When it comes time to cook, you can cook it on your grill or sear it in a nice hot cast iron pan (this is what I did). I cooked my steak for 3 1/2 minutes on one side and 3 minutes on the other and it was perfectly done for me.\n\npassage 2:A Well Done steak is the hardest to cook. The secret is to do it low and slow. It's the only way to prevent burning while fully cooking it through the middle. Grill this steak over a medium heat between 10 and 12 minutes per side.Most people will tell you that this is the steak for people who don't like steak. While there is some truth to that, it is a popular request so, any good griller needs to know how to do it. Well Done steak is the hardest to cook. The secret is to do it low and slow. It's the only way to prevent burning while fully cooking it through the middle. Grill this steak over a medium heat between 10 and 12 minutes per side.\n\npassage 3:This will let you get a good sear on the steak and get the inside cooked just perfect. Trim any excess fat from the outside edge of the steak. This fat won't add flavor and will only lead to flare-ups on the grill. Prepare the grill with a 2 zones: high and medium-low heat.For charcoal, that is 2 to 3 coals thick for the high zone, and 1 layer of coals for medium. Clean and oil the grate. Sprinkle a good amount of salt and a decent amount of ground pepper on the steak.Place the steak on the hottest part of the grill (on the grate, of course).Grill until you get a good sear. This depends on your grill, but probably about 2 to 3 minutes. If you get any flare ups that last for longer than a few seconds, move the steak to a different part of the hot grill until the fire dies down.his will let you get a good sear on the steak and get the inside cooked just perfect. Trim any excess fat from the outside edge of the steak. This fat won't add flavor and will only lead to flare-ups on the grill. Prepare the grill with a 2 zones: high and medium-low heat.\n\n"}