{"question": "how to tell a hard boiled egg is done", "passages": "passage 1:There are three different ways to boil an egg. Soft-cooked eggs have a runny yolk. The yolk for medium-cooked eggs is semirunny, and the yolk in hard-boiled eggs is completely cooked. No matter what method you use, the egg white, which should be completely cooked, will be firm.nstructions. Cool the egg after you boil it. Sit the larger, rounded end of the boiled egg on a counter top or a table. Spin the egg on the hard surface, the same way you would with a top.\n\npassage 2:Place eggs in a pot in a single layer. Add enough water to fully cover the eggs with an inch of water above the tops of the eggs. Bring the eggs to a rapid boil over high heat. Remove the pan from the heat, cover it and let the eggs sit in the hot water for about 12 to 17 minutes depending on the size of the eggs.Large and extra-large eggs will need a few minutes more than small or medium eggs.lace eggs in a pot in a single layer. Add enough water to fully cover the eggs with an inch of water above the tops of the eggs. Bring the eggs to a rapid boil over high heat. Remove the pan from the heat, cover it and let the eggs sit in the hot water for about 12 to 17 minutes depending on the size of the eggs.\n\npassage 3:Best Answer: I don't care how many you boil the key is to place the eggs in the pot and cover them with water. Bring to a boil. As soon as you get a full boil take the pot off the heat source (stove) and cover with a tight lid. Let them sit off the heat for 19 minutes and they will be done.You must cover the eggs completely with water before the boil. *** older eggs make the best hard boiled eggs. They are easier to peel if they are not fresh.Source(s): I learned this proper method to boil eggs years ago on a cooking show that featured eggs only. It works they are cooked everytime.ou must cover the eggs completely with water before the boil. *** older eggs make the best hard boiled eggs. They are easier to peel if they are not fresh. Source(s): I learned this proper method to boil eggs years ago on a cooking show that featured eggs only. It works they are cooked everytime.\n\n"}