{"question": "how to stop flies coming through the window", "passages": "passage 1:Fruit flies can enter a household or business on a piece of fruit or vegetable from a grocery store or through an open door or window in the kitchen. Keeping your house or business clean and sanitized and throwing away overripe and rotting fruits and vegetables will help ensure that fruit flies do not invade your space.hile it is nearly impossible to prevent house flies from entering your home or business, there are a few things you can do to help prevent them from multiplying. The first and most important thing that you can do is keep your home or business clean.\n\npassage 2:Method 12 of 12: Luring flies away from the house. 1. Try to discourage flies from seeing your house as inviting in the first place. Place traps outdoors and give them a playground outside by making them a delicious blood and bone feasting zone: 1  Purchase a bag of blood and bone from your local nursery or garden center.2  Pour some into a resealable large plastic bag.3  Seal.ethod 12 of 12: Luring flies away from the house. 1. Try to discourage flies from seeing your house as inviting in the first place. Place traps outdoors and give them a playground outside by making them a delicious blood and bone feasting zone: 1  Purchase a bag of blood and bone from your local nursery or garden center.\n\npassage 3:Keeping a room free of uneaten food and other trash will keep flies from being attracted to an area. Also keep garbage cans and dumpsters as far away from windows and homes as possible. Place a sticky trap near a window to capture any stray flies that do get into a home.Hang the sticky trap in a window sill or near the window. Flies will get stuck on the trap, and the dead flies and trap can be replaced as needed.eeping a room free of uneaten food and other trash will keep flies from being attracted to an area. Also keep garbage cans and dumpsters as far away from windows and homes as possible. Place a sticky trap near a window to capture any stray flies that do get into a home.\n\n"}