{"question": "what is severe osteoporosis", "passages": "passage 1:Osteoporosis can be a silent disease, but many patients suffer symptoms such as pain and height loss. Read a brief description of osteoporosis symptoms. Compression Fractures of the Back. Sudden, severe back pain, especially in older women, often signifies a spinal compression fracture -- a sign of weak bones.steoporosis can be a silent disease, but many patients suffer symptoms such as pain and height loss. Read a brief description of osteoporosis symptoms. Compression Fractures of the Back. Sudden, severe back pain, especially in older women, often signifies a spinal compression fracture -- a sign of weak bones.\n\npassage 2:The most common cause of osteoporosis pain is a spinal compression fracture. If you have been diagnosed with osteoporosis, or if you have several risk factors for osteoporosis, these symptoms may indicate a compression fracture 1  : Sudden, severe back pain that gets worse when you are standing or walking.2  Some pain relief when lying down.edication to Relieve Osteoporosis Pain. Medication is the most popular way to manage osteoporosis pain. Drugs include: 1  Over-the-counter pain medications like acetaminophen, aspirin, ibuprofen, and naproxen are safe pain relievers for most people. 2  These may cause stomach irritation and bleeding or liver problems.\n\npassage 3:Osteoporosis is a condition that has virtually no symptoms until severe bone damage has already occurred. Once the bones have been weakened by bone density loss, symptoms may include: 1  Back pain.2  Loss of height over time with stooped posture. 3  Fractures of the vertebrae, wrists, hips or other bones.ithout treatment, a person with osteoporosis is likely to have fractures, most often in the spine or hips (which support the body's weight) or in the wrists from bracing against a fall. Fractures of the spine can happen even without a fall or an injury. The bones of the spine become so weak that they start to compress.\n\n"}