{"question": "how to cook thin sirloin tip steak in skillet", "passages": "passage 1:Directions. 1  Cut steak into 4 pieces. 2  Heat lg skillet; brown steaks in oil for 5 minutes a side. 3  Remove and keep warm. 4  Add onion and mushrooms. 5  Saute for 3 minutes. 6  Add remaining ingredients, bring to a boil. 7  Reduce heat and simmer for 2 minutes.8  Serve steak with sauce spooned over.irections. 1  Cut steak into 4 pieces. 2  Heat lg skillet; brown steaks in oil for 5 minutes a side. 3  Remove and keep warm. 4  Add onion and mushrooms. 5  Saute for 3 minutes. 6  Add remaining ingredients, bring to a boil. 7  Reduce heat and simmer for 2 minutes.\n\npassage 2:1 Sprinkle beef with lemon pepper seasoning. 2  In a small bowl, mix lemon peel, soy sauce and 1 tablespoon of the oil; brush over both sides of the beef. 3  In a 10 inch nonstick skillet, heat remaining tablespoon oil over medium heat. 4  Add beef; cook 10 to 12 minutes or until browned on both sides and desired doneness.irections. 1  Sprinkle beef with lemon pepper seasoning. 2  In a small bowl, mix lemon peel, soy sauce and 1 tablespoon of the oil; brush over both sides of the beef. 3  In a 10 inch nonstick skillet, heat remaining tablespoon oil over medium heat.\n\npassage 3:Directions. In a large skillet, melt 2 tablespoons of the butter with 1 tablespoon of the olive oil over medium heat. Add the onions and cook, stirring occasionally, until golden, about 15 minutes. Transfer the onions to a bowl and set aside. Generously season both sides of the steak with salt and pepper.Add the remaining 1 tablespoon of the oil to the skillet and fry the steak over medium heat, turning once, until browned, about 6 minutes per side for medium.ransfer the steak to a serving platter and cover to keep warm. Add the bourbon to the skillet and, over medium heat, scrape up any bits that cling to the pan. Allow the liquor to simmer until reduced by half, about 1 minute. Add the onions and the remaining 2 tablespoons of butter and stir until the butter is melted.\n\n"}