{"question": "how to cook a frozen pork loin roast in the oven", "passages": "passage 1:How to cook a frozen pork roastDefrost first. If you do not have time to defrost first; put in the oven @ 250 F. for about 1 hour. Take it out, season it. Turn your oven up to 350 F. Put in the oven for 1.5 - 3 hours (according to size of roast). Make sure roast is cooked all the way through!ow to cook a frozen pork roastDefrost first. If you do not have time to defrost first; put in the oven @ 250 F. for about 1 hour. Take it out, season it. Turn your oven up to 350 F. Put in the oven for 1.5 - 3 hours (according to size of roast). Make sure roast is cooked all the way through!\n\npassage 2:Instructions. Preheat your oven to 325 degrees F. Place your frozen pork roast in a roasting pan and rub the surface with 2 tsp. of olive oil. Season the outside of the roast with salt, pepper and any seasonings you desire.Thyme, oregano or garlic are good choices for pork roasts.Place the roast, uncovered, in the preheated oven. Determine the cooking time.lace your frozen pork roast in a roasting pan and rub the surface with 2 tsp. of olive oil. Season the outside of the roast with salt, pepper and any seasonings you desire. Thyme, oregano or garlic are good choices for pork roasts. Place the roast, uncovered, in the preheated oven. Determine the cooking time.\n\npassage 3:To cook a frozen pork loin, start by preheating the oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit. Put the frozen pork loin in a shallow baking pan on top of a roasting rack with the fat of the pork loin facing upwards.Next, cook the pork loin for about 20-30 minutes per pound. Insert a meat thermometer, and test the meat after cooking.When internal temperature of the meat is 150 degrees Fahrenheit, the meat is ready to be taken out of the oven. Cover the roast with aluminum foil, and let it sit for 30 minutes before serving.urn your oven up to \u2026 350 F. Put in the oven for 1.5 - 3 hours (according to size of roast). Make sure roast is cooked all the way through! Take out and cove with a tea towel until ready to cut and serve. Enjoy I agree that you need to defrost it first. Here's an excellent clue not only for pork, but for any roasts.\n\n"}