{"question": "how do i cook squash in the oven", "passages": "passage 1:Directions. Preheat oven to 425 degrees. Drizzle squash flesh with 2 tablespoons olive oil and season with salt and pepper. Place cut side down on a parchment-lined rimmed baking sheet.Roast until squash is tender when pierced with a knife, about 1 hour. When cool enough to handle, gently scrape squash with a fork to remove flesh in long strands and transfer to a medium bowl. Toss with remaining 1 tablespoon oil, lemon juice, and parsley.irections. Preheat oven to 425 degrees. Drizzle squash flesh with 2 tablespoons olive oil and season with salt and pepper. Place cut side down on a parchment-lined rimmed baking sheet.\n\npassage 2:Scoop the seeds and stringy pulp out of the squash cavities and discard. In a small mixing bowl, combine the brown sugar, butter, syrup and salt and pepper, to taste. Rub the squash cavities and cut sides of the squash with the butter mixture and place them on a baking sheet, cut side up.Bake in the preheated oven for about 1 hour until the squash is tender when pierced with a fork.coop the seeds and stringy pulp out of the squash cavities and discard. In a small mixing bowl, combine the brown sugar, butter, syrup and salt and pepper, to taste. Rub the squash cavities and cut sides of the squash with the butter mixture and place them on a baking sheet, cut side up.\n\npassage 3:Brush the inside of each half with olive oil and sprinkle with coarse salt and freshly ground black pepper. Place cut-sides down on a baking sheet. Bake for about 40 minutes until you can easily pierce the squash with a fork. Let cool for about 15 minutes, or until squash is cool enough to handle.With a fork, scrape out the spaghetti-like strands and prepare as desired.lace cut-sides down on a baking sheet. Bake for about 40 minutes until you can easily pierce the squash with a fork. Let cool for about 15 minutes, or until squash is cool enough to handle. With a fork, scrape out the spaghetti-like strands and prepare as desired.\n\n"}