{"question": "how to remove jeep wrangler split hard top", "passages": "passage 1:Remove the soft upper half doors. Remove the factory installed Jeep door inserts by using a large flat-bladed screw driver and gently prying them up. (See image to the right). easily be removed by hand. There should be three (3) per side. (Please note the positioning of the Jeep Door Inserts before removal.emove the soft upper half doors. Remove the factory installed Jeep door inserts by using a large flat-bladed screw driver and gently prying them up. (See image to the right). easily be removed by hand. There should be three (3) per side. (Please note the positioning of the Jeep Door Inserts before removal.\n\npassage 2:Once you've removed them get a buddy and lift the hard top off the Jeep and walk it backwards behind the Jeep. You'll want to be somewhat towards the back of the hard top because there is more weight back there because of the rear window.If you have the rear window opened you don't have to lift it over the spare tire.Carefully walk the hard top over and set it on the blocks, put a cover on it if it's going to be out for a while. Grab you shades, drive your Jeep Wrangler with the top off, win at life. 7 of 7 Show All.f you have the rear window opened you don't have to lift it over the spare tire. Carefully walk the hard top over and set it on the blocks, put a cover on it if it's going to be out for a while. Grab you shades, drive your Jeep Wrangler with the top off, win at life. 7 of 7 Show All.\n\npassage 3:Hardtops do not typically replace soft tops, they are an addition. When you use a hardtop, you typically place the soft top in the down position, and then mount the hardtop on \u2026 the car. Some owners enjoy a hardtop only and will permanently remove the soft top, but it is not mandatory.Hardtop will mount to the windshield latch points similar to the soft top.ardtops do not typically replace soft tops, they are an addition. When you use a hardtop, you typically place the soft top in the down position, and then mount the hardtop on \u2026 the car. Some owners enjoy a hardtop only and will permanently remove the soft top, but it is not mandatory.\n\n"}