{"question": "how to cut slate", "passages": "passage 1:Cutting slate slabs does not have to be complicated; with standard tools and a suitable type of blade, you should be able to manage without a problem. Step 1 - Mark the Cutting Line and Mount the Slate Slab. Find the location on the slate slab that you want to cut and use a marker pen or pencil to draw a line across it.ou can also place it on top of two other slate slabs \u2013 anything to create a stable surface will do. The area of the slate slab marked by the pencil line should be places in the center between the two wooden or slate blocks. Step 2 - Cutting the Slate Slab. Get the circular saw and place a suitable blade in it.\n\npassage 2:Published on Aug 29, 2013. This video shows some common and not so common methods of cutting slate. Not only does it show you the easiest way to cut slate, but shows you some of the techniques and kit the professionals use, and how to replicate this at home with no specialist equipment if necessary.Why not visit this link to see more free slating advice and videos: http://www.fixmyroof.co.uk/videos-and...ot only does it show you the easiest way to cut slate, but shows you some of the techniques and kit the professionals use, and how to replicate this at home with no specialist equipment if necessary. Why not visit this link to see more free slating advice and videos:\n\npassage 3:You can use a wet saw for cutting. Here you place the slate stone on a sliding tray which moves into the spinning blade. The blade, the saw and stone are kept wet while cutting so that they do not become too hot. The cutting should be done in such an area that water can be easily pumped into the saw.Mark the cut on the slate with a pencil and place the slate on the tray. Place the blade on the marked portion and turn on the saw. The slate slowly moves towards the blade and the blade grinds through the stone.Continue until the blade has cut cleanly all the way through the slate.he cutting should be done in such an area that water can be easily pumped into the saw. Mark the cut on the slate with a pencil and place the slate on the tray. Place the blade on the marked portion and turn on the saw. The slate slowly moves towards the blade and the blade grinds through the stone.\n\n"}