{"question": "how to get antique effect on wood using normal paint", "passages": "passage 1:Visit: http://www.facebook.com/beachbumlivin for up close pictures!! Layering stain for a cool effect! How to paint furniture then distress it to give your furniture that antique finish. Refinishing and painting furniture tips and techniques and using Stain to create a cool look.This weeks project I demonstrate how layering stain can give you a really cool look to your furniture project.It's a very simple finishing technique that anyone can accomplish and get great results! THANKS FOR SUBSCRIBING! :).efinishing and painting furniture tips and techniques and using Stain to create a cool look. This weeks project I demonstrate how layering stain can give you a really cool look to your furniture project. It's a very simple finishing technique that anyone can accomplish and get great results! THANKS FOR SUBSCRIBING! :).\n\npassage 2:1 - Apply a layer of molding paste, which dries white. - 2  Mix in a rust or dull color, such as yellow ochre or paynes grey. - 3  Use a palette knife to spread the mixture over the canvas and let dry. - 4  Patty uses a stencil to create an embossed design with the remaining molding paste mixture. - Spread a layer of blue paint and dry this. - 2  Use a palette knife to spread on acrylic gel medium thinly, and let this dry also. - 3  Paint a thin layer with burnt seanna or an approximate color. 4  Dab this with a paper towel or cloth to remove excess paint. 5  Dry this.\n\npassage 3:Paint your wood piece with a basecoat of flat or satin paint; satin paint is easier to work with, but flat paint results in an older look. Mix paint that\u2019s two shades darker than your basecoat with an equal amount of glaze.Once your basecoat dries, drip a crumpled rag or plastic bag in the glaze mixture.ive new wood a vintage look with paint. You don\u2019t have to wait decades for your wood pieces to acquire a vintage look. Instead, duplicate the age-worn finishes you see in antique stores with decorative painting techniques. You can give your wooden furniture, accessories and cabinetry a vintage patina in little time.\n\n"}