{"question": "what is the difference between a rock and a stone", "passages": "passage 1:More common than death by stone is the affirmation of a Holy Being as the \u201crock of one\u2019s salvation.\u201d This sense highlights a central difference between the words. People often use rock to refer to something solid, large, grounded, substantial, something to base your faith upon, such as a mountain or palisade. refer to the two icons of that theater, The Rock and Stone Cold Steve Austin. Surely these two men illustrate the differences between the two words. Ultimately, I have concluded that there is some difference between the terms. I agree with Thorson that stone more often implies some sort of human use.\n\npassage 2:Rocks vs Stones. Although most of us confuse rocks and stones and consider them as the same, there exists a clear difference between rocks and stones. First let us define the two words. A rock is the hard material of the earth\u2019s crust. It is normally exposed on the surface of the earth or sometimes underlying the soil.ocks vs Stones. Although most of us confuse rocks and stones and consider them as the same, there exists a clear difference between rocks and stones. First let us define the two words. A rock is the hard material of the earth\u2019s crust. It is normally exposed on the surface of the earth or sometimes underlying the soil.\n\npassage 3:Summary. 1. Rocks are made of smaller stones and stones are made from rocks. 2. Rock can be described as a large piece of stone that is difficult to be carried in the hand. On the other hand, stone is just a small piece or pebble that can be carried in the hand.3.The stones can be pelted easily but one cannot do so with rocks.. Rocks are made of smaller stones and stones are made from rocks. 2. Rock can be described as a large piece of stone that is difficult to be carried in the hand. On the other hand, stone is just a small piece or pebble that can be carried in the hand. 3. The stones can be pelted easily but one cannot do so with rocks.\n\n"}