{"question": "how to cook chicken breast in the oven with foil", "passages": "passage 1:1 Preheat grill to medium (or bake in oven at 375\u00b0). 2  Place one chicken breast on 10x10 piece of heavy aluminum foil. 3  Brush each breast with olive oil, season with salt and pepper. 4  Heat 1 tablespoon olive oil in skillet. 5  Saute shallot and garlic until just tender, 2-3 minutes. Taste to check seasoning. 2  Divide sauce, spooning over each chicken breast on foil. 3  Fold foil over, or bring up sides and crimp edges tightly to seal. 4  Place on grill and cook until chicken is cooked through, about 15-20 minutes or place in oven and bake about 20 minutes. 5  Serve hot. 6  Great with hot cooked brown rice.\n\npassage 2:Fold the sides of the foil together over the chicken breast, crimping the edges together to create a tight seal. Crimp both ends together, as well. Place the foil packet on a baking sheet and place in the oven.Bake for 20 to 30 minutes, depending on the size of the chicken breast.Remove baking sheet from oven. Allow the chicken to rest for five minutes before opening the packet.Transfer chicken and vegetables to a plate and serve immediately.old the sides of the foil together over the chicken breast, crimping the edges together to create a tight seal. Crimp both ends together, as well. Place the foil packet on a baking sheet and place in the oven.\n\npassage 3:1 Preheat oven to 375\u00b0F. 2  Place 1 chicken breast in center of each sheet of foil; arrange carrots, zucchini, peas and bell pepper around chicken. 3  Combine 1/2 cup chicken broth and flour in small saucepan; stir in garlic, thyme, salt, nutmeg and black pepper.REPARATION: 1  Preheat oven to 375\u00b0F. 2  Place 1 chicken breast in center of each sheet of foil; arrange carrots, zucchini, peas and bell pepper around chicken. 3  Combine 1/2 cup chicken broth and flour in small saucepan; stir in garlic, thyme, salt, nutmeg and black pepper. 4  Heat to a boil, stirring constantly, until thickened.\n\n"}