{"question": "why should we serve others", "passages": "passage 1:Love your neighbour as yourself (Matthew 22:39). The Christian life is one of service to others, where we show love and kindness to everyone, even to those who do not treat us well. We can serve others in many ways, and we should ensure that we use every opportunity that we can.Relationships.he spirit of service should be seen in all aspects of our work. By providing a Second Mile Service, meaning that we go the extra mile for our customers and employers, we can serve others and help them in ways which they appreciate and find useful. If anyone forces you to go one mile, go with them two miles.\n\npassage 2:Question: Why should I want to serve God?. Answer: The fact that we should serve God is obvious in Scripture (see Luke 4:8). Why we should want to serve God is a more difficult question. Every Christian asked might have a different reason for serving God; different people are motivated by different things.However, the Bible does make clear that, when a person is in a real relationship with God, he will serve God.We should want to serve God because we know Him; an inherent part of knowing Him is a desire to serve Him. It\u2019s always been God\u2019s intention to make us like His Son, Jesus (Romans 8:29).f you want to want to serve God, the key is to get to know Him! Ask the Holy Spirit to reveal more of God to you (John 16:13). When we truly know God, who is love (1 John 4:8), our natural response is a desire to love and serve Him in return.\n\npassage 3:If we are serving others for those reasons, we are not serving or loving properly. Instead, we are serving others as a way to serve ourselves. This doesn\u2019t mean we shouldn\u2019t choose to serve if we feel it is the right thing to do in a given situation or to build and strengthen our character muscles.hen we learn to serve in this way our rewards are so much greater than if we were to serve with self-serving motives. Because we serve out of love with no stipulations or expectations of anything in return, it no longer matters what we get out of it.\n\n"}