{"question": "what version of windos do i have", "passages": "passage 1:Problem: You don't know which version of Windows you have. Solution: Right-click (with the right-hand mouse button) on My Computer. Click on Properties. A box will open up telling you what version of Windows you have.If you can't find My Computer or can't get a box with a version to open from it, open up the Start Menu in the bottom-left corner of your screen, and open Control Panel. In there, open the item named System.A box will open up telling you what version of Windows you have.roblem: You don't know which version of Windows you have. Solution: Right-click (with the right-hand mouse button) on My Computer. Click on Properties. A box will open up telling you what version of Windows you have.\n\npassage 2:Use the following methods to determine which version of Windows is installed, as appropriate for the operating system that you are running. There are two methods that you can use to determine whether you are running a 32-bit or 64-bit version of Windows 8.If one method does not work, try the other method. Click Start, and then click Run. 2  Type winmsd.exe, and then click OK. 3  When System Summary is selected in the navigation pane, locate Processor under Item in the details pane. 4  Note the value. 5  If the value that corresponds to Processor starts with x86, the computer is running a 32-bit version of Windows.\n\npassage 3:Alternative methods. Below are some additional methods of determining the version of Windows. 1  Right-click on My Computer on the Windows Desktop or in the Start menu. 2  Select the Properties option. 3  In the System Properties window, as shown below, the version of Windows and the Service Pack (if installed) is displayed.indows on mobile devices. If you're running Windows CE on a mobile device such as a cell phone or PDA, you can determine the version of Windows CE by following the steps below. 1  Click Start, Settings, and then Control Panel. 2  Click the Systems Icon.\n\n"}