{"question": "how do i transfer routes to my garmin", "passages": "passage 1:Hey, it\u2019s like riding a bike! You have the GPX file on your computer, and you just need to move or transfer it over to the Garmin device. To do this, follow these steps: Connect the Garmin to the computer with a USB cable. Check that you can \u201csee\u201d the device, plus its memory card (if there\u2019s one installed).In Windows, the best way to do this is to double-click the My Computer icon on your desktop.opy your GPX file into the NewFiles folder. To do this, just drag and drop the file from your computer to the NewFiles window. Or copy and paste it, whichever is easier and quicker for you. I know some people can get a bit stuck on this part, and it\u2019s often overlooked.\n\npassage 2:I have created a route on Basecamp using the city navigator europe NTU map using waypoints, then incorporated into a route, which shows under the 'My Collection' column. If I right click the route and select 'send to device', it shows me my nuvi as an option-I tick the 'routes' and 'waypoints' boxes and hit send. have created a route on Basecamp using the city navigator europe NTU map using waypoints, then incorporated into a route, which shows under the 'My Collection' column. If I right click the route and select 'send to device', it shows me my nuvi as an option-I tick the 'routes' and 'waypoints' boxes and hit send.\n\npassage 3:1 Go to the route of your choice and click on the Download button. 2  On the next page, click on Download the route to my Garmin device. 3  The first time you do this, you will see a message that the Garmin Communicator Plugin (Windows/Mac) and the Garmin USB driver software (Windows only) have to be installed first. Go to the route of your choice and click on the Download button. 2  On the next page, click on Download the route to my Garmin device. 3  The first time you do this, you will see a message that the Garmin Communicator Plugin (Windows/Mac) and the Garmin USB driver software (Windows only) have to be installed first.\n\n"}