{"question": "how to care for indoor potted basil plant", "passages": "passage 1:5. Feed the basil plant every two weeks with a plant fertilizer that is high in nitrogen. Use the fertilizer at half strength to avoid root burn. Fertilizer promotes foliage growth and slows the flowering stage of the plant.. Set the plant on a tray full of pebbles, and add water to the tray. This creates a level of humidity around the basil plant. You can also mist the plant daily to increase the moisture in the air. Maintain a room temperature of about 60 to 75 degrees Fahrenheit, and avoid cold drafts.\n\npassage 2:Let\u2019s look at how to grow basil indoors. Basil Growing Indoors Growing basil indoors is easy. Container grown basil should be planted in well-drained, nutrient-rich soil. Using the proper soil type is important in order to successfully grow basil inside.As basil is not tolerant of water stress, make sure pots provide adequate drainage.est Lighting to Grow Basil Inside Additionally, when growing basil indoors, lighting is important. Basil growing indoors requires at least six hours of sunlight. Basil plants should be placed in a sunny window, preferably facing south. Otherwise, these potted plants may need to be grown under fluorescent lights.\n\npassage 3:Mixing equal parts of peat moss, compost and potting soil will produce good results. Tamp the soil down lightly to remove air pockets and water it. Keep the soil in the sunny window. Plant your basil only after the soil is warm (above 60 degrees) by sowing seeds directly into the pot, or transplanting seedlings.Water your basil regularly to keep the soil moist, but not soggy.Water deeply, until water drips out of the bottom of the pot. Don't allow the soil to dry out completely between waterings.ixing equal parts of peat moss, compost and potting soil will produce good results. Tamp the soil down lightly to remove air pockets and water it. Keep the soil in the sunny window. Plant your basil only after the soil is warm (above 60 degrees) by sowing seeds directly into the pot, or transplanting seedlings.\n\n"}