{"question": "how to remove spring loaded door hinges", "passages": "passage 1:Typical spring hinges have a coil spring that wraps around the hinge pin inside the barrel of the hinge. The upper end of the spring is configured to interface with a peg that tightens the spring when the door is opened, providing the tension that closes the door.Disabling the spring function is not difficult.ip. 1  Spring hinges vary in style. 2  Some require a small rod that you insert into a hole next to the locking pin to rotate the hinge and remove the pin. 3  If the rod isn't available, use a 16d framing nail to apply counter-directional pressure.\n\npassage 2:A spring-loaded hinge contains a spring inside the hinge cylinder that helps close a door. This type of hinge is ideal for use in a door leading to the basement, garage or any door throughout your home. The mechanism inside the hinge is adjustable, allowing you to increase or decrease the tension.. Insert a 5/32-inch hex key into the opening at the top of the spring-loaded hinge if your hinge has an opening at the top of the hinge. If your hinge has a horizontal slot on the side of the hinge, insert the tension lever that came with the hinge into the hole on the far right of the slot.\n\npassage 3:You cannot disable the spring in the hinges; you must remove the entire hinge to negate the spring loading action of the door. Step One \u2013 Open the Hinge. Most spring loaded door hinges have a cover plate that hides the mechanism and the hardware.In order to find the screws that hold the hinge onto the door and the spring loaded device, you\u2019ll need to remove this cover plate.Step Two \u2013 Look For Tension Adjuster.In some spring loaded door hinges, there is a tension adjustment device.f you use two clamps, this will happen as you remove the first clamp. Be prepared for the noise and force of the closing. Even with a spring loaded door hinge adjusted to low tension, the force of the hinge is significant. Once it is closed, you can remove the other clamp and store the hinge.\n\n"}