{"question": "how is a caldera different from a crater", "passages": "passage 1:Caldera. A large depression made because of volcanic activity is called a caldera. It is the result of a large cavity created underground when a chamber of magma and lava gets emptied. This cavity creates pressure and the over ground rocks collapse to create a large depression.This large depression is called a caldera.rater. A volcanic crater is a bowl like structure at the top of a volcano around the opening that is used for eruption of magma and lava. This is a depression that is the result of sinking in of the rocks because of high pressure. Mostly it has the opening through which lava and ash flows upwards.\n\npassage 2:A great example is Crater Lake located in Oregon. This is actually a caldera. Photo courtesy of Wikicommons. Photographer: unknown. The main difference between craters and calderas is how they are formed. Craters are caused by impacts from meteorites, and can range in size from very small to several hundred km across.According to the US Geological Survey, a caldera is a large (at least one km across), circular depression formed at the top of a volcano when the magma chamber collapses.hotographer: unknown. The main difference between craters and calderas is how they are formed. Craters are caused by impacts from meteorites, and can range in size from very small to several hundred km across.\n\npassage 3:Crater. A volcanic crater is a bowl like structure at the top of a volcano around the opening that is used for eruption of magma and lava. This is a depression that is the result of sinking in of the rocks because of high pressure. Mostly it has the opening through which lava and ash flows upwards.rater. A volcanic crater is a bowl like structure at the top of a volcano around the opening that is used for eruption of magma and lava. This is a depression that is the result of sinking in of the rocks because of high pressure. Mostly it has the opening through which lava and ash flows upwards.\n\n"}