{"question": "what causes a sore swollen eye", "passages": "passage 1:Conjunctivitis. Also called  pink eye , conjunctivitis is inflammation of the clear lining of the surface of the eye, called the conjunctiva. Allergic, bacterial and viral types of pink eye can all result in swollen eyelids, among other symptoms such as watery, red and itchy eyes.Styes.wollen eyes usually are accompanied by one or more of the following: 1  Eye irritation, such as an itchy or scratchy sensation. 2  Excess tear production, resulting in watering eyes. 3  Obstructed vision (depending on the extent of the swelling).\n\npassage 2:Swelling of the eye, also referred to as periorbital puffiness, refers to the presence of excess fluid (edema) in the connective tissues around the eye, most commonly the eyelids. A swollen eye can result from trauma, infections, or other injuries to the eye area.Prolonged crying is a common cause of swollen eyes. Virtually any cause of inflammation to the eye area may manifest as eyelid swelling, although allergic reactions are likely the most common cause.With allergic reactions, the eyes may also be red and itchy as well as swollen.rolonged crying is a common cause of swollen eyes. Virtually any cause of inflammation to the eye area may manifest as eyelid swelling, although allergic reactions are likely the most common cause. With allergic reactions, the eyes may also be red and itchy as well as swollen.\n\npassage 3:Like adults, children can be affected by swelling in their eyelids. Common causes include trauma and allergies, but children can also develop a swollen eyelid from eye conditions such as blepharitis and pink eye (conjunctivitis). Children also experience symptoms like redness, burning sensations, watery eyes, and pain.ike adults, children can be affected by swelling in their eyelids. Common causes include trauma and allergies, but children can also develop a swollen eyelid from eye conditions such as blepharitis and pink eye (conjunctivitis). Children also experience symptoms like redness, burning sensations, watery eyes, and pain.\n\n"}