{"question": "what rights did females not have before the suffrage movement", "passages": "passage 1:In the 1800s, women fought for the rights to vote and be considered equal partners to men. Encompassed in equality, women fought for the right to own property, keep wages and sign a contract. Before the suffrage movement that took place during many decades in the 1800s, women were expected only to have interests in the home, their children and their husbands. They were not allowed to vote, work for a living wage or own their own property. After women were married, they lost all of their rights to be able to speak for themselves and were not even allowed to sign contracts. During this time, not all women wanted to marry, have children and run a home. They wanted to be able to support themselves and gain access to money without a husband. Women wanted to be treated equally to men and these women started the suffrage movement. It was one of the largest civil movements in the United States, and it eventually led to the biggest change in the way politics were decided.\n\npassage 2:After the war, woman suffrage endured another setback, when the women\u2019s rights movement found itself divided over the issue of voting rights for black men. Stanton and some other suffrage leaders objected to the proposed 15th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, which would give black men the right to vote, but failed to extend the same privilege to American women of any skin color.\n\npassage 3:Women's suffrage in the United Kingdom. Women's suffrage in the United Kingdom was a movement to give women the right to vote. It finally succeeded through two laws in 1918 and 1928. It became a national movement in the Victorian era. Women were not explicitly banned from voting in Great Britain until the 1832 Reform Act and the 1835 Municipal Corporations Act. In 1872 the fight for women's suffrage became a national movement with the formation of the National Society for Women's Suffrage and later the more influential National Union of Women's Suffrage Societies (NUWSS). As well as in England, women's suffrage movements in Wales and other parts of the\n\n"}