{"question": "how to hide your new friends on facebook", "passages": "passage 1:Go to your profile. Click on Friends, below your cover picture. On the top right of the Friends section there is a small box with a pen icon (Edit). Click on it and select Edit Privacy.Change the privacy of Friend List to Only Me.Voila! No story will be generated on your friends' news feed when you add a new friend.n the top right of the Friends section there is a small box with a pen icon (Edit). Click on it and select Edit Privacy. Change the privacy of Friend List to Only Me. Voila! No story will be generated on your friends' news feed when you add a new friend.\n\npassage 2:Scroll down to the beginning of your Friends list and click on the pencil to the right of the word Friends: 3. Uncheck the box that says Show Friend list to everyone: You can't hide your friends from your friends and applications.Unchecking that box will hide your friends list when a non-Facebook friend views your public profile, but it will not hide your Facebook friends list from your friends when they look at your profile.croll down to the beginning of your Friends list and click on the pencil to the right of the word Friends: 3. Uncheck the box that says Show Friend list to everyone: You can't hide your friends from your friends and applications.\n\npassage 3:I have deactivated my account untill it is sorted! This doesnt work anymore!!! PLEASE RE-UPDATE!!.. There is no longer an edit button with a pencil just a pencil button!! and it doesnt allow you to set who can see your friend list on your timeline just who can see your friends....Well i set it to only myself and it still allows people under my restricted list to see my friends!! have deactivated my account untill it is sorted! This doesnt work anymore!!! PLEASE RE-UPDATE!!.. There is no longer an edit button with a pencil just a pencil button!! and it doesnt allow you to set who can see your friend list on your timeline just who can see your friends....\n\n"}