{"question": "how to eyelash extensions work", "passages": "passage 1:Avoid touching your lashes, picking, pulling or rubbing your lashes can potentially damage not only your lash extensions, but your natural lashes as well. Avoid extensive exercise the day of application. Avoid saunas and steam rooms 48 hours after application. The heat will cause the bond to weaken.void getting your lashes wet for 24 hours after application allowing the adhesive bond to fully dry. Use only OIL \u2013FREE products on and around the eyelashes(including make-up remover, mascara and eyeliner). Use special care around the eye area applying gentle and light pressure when washing or drying the face.\n\npassage 2:What To Know Before You Get Eyelash Extensions. Women spend millions of dollars each year trying to get longer, lusher, fuller lashes. While mascara may be enough for many, some women just didn't score the genetic jackpot when it comes to long lashes.hat are the downsides? While this process is generally considered safe, there are some things you should be aware of before you decide to commit to lash extensions. 1  Cost \u2013 This process is not cheap! 2  You can spend anywhere from $120 to $500 for a set of lashes (I even heard of silk eyelashes for $700 \u2013 wow!).\n\npassage 3:A professional will simply ask you to lie back and will use forceps to gather individual lashes, using adhesive to put on the extensions. Once the adhesive has been given 24 hours to dry, you can expect eyelash extensions to last for up to six weeks or more, depending on the growth cycle and speed of your lashes.Eyelash extensions can be a great way to easily enhance your natural beauty, and when properly applied, they are quite durable.he process is usually done by a professional, though there are kits that allow you to do the process at home. Using a professional service can cost between $200 to $500. When you have the eyelash extensions professionally applied, you will find that the process is fairly simple and completely pain-free.\n\n"}