{"question": "factors that cause oily skin", "passages": "passage 1:Oily Skin Causes. People with oily skin often wonder what they're doing to cause the problem. They may blame it on the greasy pizza they ate last night, but the truth is they should probably blame their genes.Diet can aggravate acne, but it doesn't cause oily skin [source: WebMD ].Oily skin is hereditary -- you can change your diet or change your lifestyle, but if your mom or dad has oily skin, chances are you will, too.However, if your oily skin comes and goes, it may have less to do with genes and more to do with hormonal shifts in your body.ily Skin Causes. People with oily skin often wonder what they're doing to cause the problem. They may blame it on the greasy pizza they ate last night, but the truth is they should probably blame their genes.\n\npassage 2:Oily skin is a term commonly used to identify skin that feels \u2018oily\u2019 or appears \u2018shiny\u2019, especially the skin of the face. Before investigating the cause of your oily skin, it is important to first identify if this \u2018oiliness\u2019 is a natural phenomenon or due to poor hygiene and topical applications.ontrary to popular belief, your diet has a limited effect on the oiliness of the skin. A common myth is that oily foods, especially foods like chocolates and peanut butter, may increase the oil production. Alcohol is often thought to be responsible as well.\n\npassage 3:Skin types include normal, oily, dry, and sensitive. Some people also have a combination of skin types in different areas of their skin. Your skin type can change over time. For example, younger people are more likely than older people to have a normal skin type. combination skin type can be dry or normal in some areas and oily in others, such as the T-zone (nose, forehead, and chin). Many people have combination skin, which may benefit from slightly different types of skin care in different areas. Combination skin can produce: 1  Overly dilated pores. 2  Blackheads. 3  Shiny skin.\n\n"}