Felicity Rose Hadley Jones -LRB- born 17 October 1983 -RRB- is an English actress . She started her professional acting career as a child , appearing at age 12 in The Treasure Seekers -LRB- 1996 -RRB- . Jones went on to play Ethel Hallow for one season in the television show The Worst Witch and its sequel Weirdsister College . She took time off from acting to attend university at Wadham College , Oxford where she performed in Shakespeare 's The Comedy of Errors for the Oxford University Dramatic Society , and has worked steadily since graduating in 2006 . On radio , she has played the role of Emma Grundy in the BBC 's The Archers . In 2008 , she appeared in the Donmar Warehouse production of The Chalk Garden .   Since 2006 , Jones has appeared in numerous films , including Northanger Abbey -LRB- 2007 -RRB- , Brideshead Revisited -LRB- 2008 -RRB- , Chéri -LRB- 2009 -RRB- , and The Tempest -LRB- 2010 -RRB- . Her performance in the 2011 film Like Crazy was met with critical acclaim , garnering her numerous awards , including a special jury prize at the 2011 Sundance Film Festival . In 2014 , her performance as Jane Hawking in The Theory of Everything also met with critical acclaim , garnering her nominations for the Golden Globe , SAG , BAFTA and Academy Award for Best Actress . In 2016 , Jones starred in the adventure-thriller Inferno , the fantasy drama A Monster Calls and the Star Wars anthology film Rogue One . In 2016 , she received the BAFTA Britannia Award for British Artist of the Year . 
The Theory of Everything is a 2014 British biographical romantic drama film directed by James Marsh and adapted by Anthony McCarten from the memoir Travelling to Infinity : My Life with Stephen by Jane Wilde Hawking , which deals with her relationship with her ex-husband , theoretical physicist Stephen Hawking , his diagnosis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis -LRB- ALS , also known as Lou Gehrig 's disease or motor neurone disease -RRB- , and his success in physics .   The film stars Eddie Redmayne and Felicity Jones with Charlie Cox , Emily Watson , Simon McBurney , Christian McKay , Harry Lloyd and David Thewlis featured in supporting roles . The film had its world premiere at the 2014 Toronto International Film Festival on 7 September 2014 .   The film was acclaimed critically worldwide , with praise for the musical score , cinematography and the performance of Felicity Jones and especially Eddie Redmayne , which earned him nominations for a variety of accolades in award shows and film festivals , including the Academy Award for Best Actor . The film received four Golden Globe Award nominations , winning the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor -- Motion Picture Drama for Redmayne and Best Original Score for Jóhannsson . It received three Screen Actors Guild Awards nominations , winning one for the Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Leading Role for Redmayne . It received 10 British Academy Film Awards nominations and won Outstanding British Film , Best Leading Actor -LRB- for Redmayne -RRB- and Best Adapted Screenplay -LRB- for McCarten -RRB- . 