William Jennings Bryan -LRB- March 19 , 1860 -- July 26 , 1925 -RRB- was an American orator and politician from Nebraska , and a dominant force in the populist wing of the Democratic Party , standing three times as the Party 's nominee for President of the United States -LRB- 1896 , 1900 , and 1908 -RRB- . He served two terms as a member of the United States House of Representatives from Nebraska and was United States Secretary of State under President Woodrow Wilson -LRB- 1913 -- 1915 -RRB- . He resigned because of his pacifist position on World War I. Bryan was a devout Presbyterian , a strong advocate of popular democracy , and an enemy of the banks and the gold standard . He demanded `` Free Silver '' because he believed it undermined the evil `` Money Power '' and put more cash in the hands of the common people . He was a peace advocate , a supporter of Prohibition , and an opponent of Darwinism on religious and humanitarian grounds . With his deep , commanding voice and wide travels , he was perhaps the best-known orator and lecturer of the era . Because of his faith in the wisdom of the common people , he was called `` The Great Commoner '' .   In the intensely fought 1896 and 1900 elections , he was defeated by William McKinley but retained control of the Democratic Party . With over 500 speeches in 1896 , Bryan invented the national stumping tour in an era when other presidential candidates stayed home . In his three presidential bids , he promoted Free Silver in 1896 , anti-imperialism in 1900 , and trust-busting in 1908 , calling on Democrats to fight the trusts -LRB- big corporations -RRB- and big banks , and embrace anti-elitist ideals of republicanism . President Wilson appointed him Secretary of State in 1913 . After the Lusitania was torpedoed in 1915 , Wilson made strong demands on Germany that Bryan disagreed with , resigning in protest as a pacifist . After 1920 , he turned to Christian fundamentalism ; he supported Prohibition and attacked Darwinism and evolution , most famously at the Scopes Trial in 1925 in Tennessee . Five days after the conclusion of the Scopes case , Bryan died in his sleep . 
The Democratic Party is one of the two major contemporary political parties in the United States , along with the Republican Party . Tracing its heritage back to Thomas Jefferson and James Madison 's Democratic-Republican Party , the modern-day Democratic Party was founded around 1828 by Andrew Jackson , making it the world 's oldest active party .   The Democrats ' dominant worldview was once social conservativism and economic liberalism , while , especially in the rural South , populism was its leading characteristic . In 1912 , Theodore Roosevelt ran as a third-party candidate in the Progressive -LRB- `` Bull Moose '' -RRB- Party , leading to a switch of political platforms between the Democratic and Republican Party and Woodrow Wilson being elected as the first fiscally progressive Democrat . Since Franklin D. Roosevelt and his New Deal coalition in the 1930s , the Democratic Party has also promoted a social-liberal platform , supporting social justice .   Today , the House Democratic caucus is composed mostly of progressives and centrists , with a smaller minority of conservative Democrats . The party 's philosophy of modern liberalism advocates social and economic equality , along with the welfare state . It seeks to provide government intervention and regulation in the economy . These interventions , such as the introduction of social programs , support for labor unions , affordable college tuitions , moves toward universal health care and equal opportunity , consumer protection , and environmental protection form the core of the party 's economic policy . The party has united with smaller liberal regional parties throughout the country , such as the Farmer -- Labor Party in Minnesota and the Nonpartisan League in North Dakota .   Well into the 20th century , the party had conservative pro-business and southern conservative-populist anti-business wings . The New Deal Coalition of 1932 -- 1964 attracted strong support from voters of recent European extraction -- many of whom were Catholics based in the cities . After Franklin D. Roosevelt 's New Deal of the 1930s , the pro-business wing withered outside the South . After the racial turmoil of the 1960s , most southern whites and many northern Catholics moved into the Republican Party at the presidential level . The once-powerful labor union element became smaller and less supportive after the 1970s . White Evangelicals and Southerners became heavily Republican at the state and local level in the 1990s . Racial and ethnic minorities in the U.S. such as -LRB- but not limited to -RRB- Jewish Americans , Hispanic Americans , Arabic Americans , and African Americans , tend to support the Democratic Party in proportions higher than their overall representation in American society . Overall , the Democratic Party has retained a membership lead over its major rival the Republican Party -LRB- GOP -RRB- .   15 Democrats have served as president under 16 administrations : the first was seventh president Andrew Jackson , who served from 1829 to 1837 ; Grover Cleveland served two nonconsecutive terms from 1885 to 1889 and 1893 to 1897 , and is thus counted twice -LRB- as the 22nd and 24th president -RRB- . The most recent was the 44th president Barack Obama , who held the office from 2009 to 2017 .   In the 115th Congress , following the 2016 elections , Democrats are the opposition party , holding a minority of seats in both the House of Representatives and the Senate . The party also holds a minority of governorships -LRB- 16/50 -RRB- , and state legislatures -LRB- full control of 12/50 , split control of six others -RRB- , though they do control the mayoralty of cities such as New York City , Los Angeles , Chicago , Houston , and Washington , D.C. 