Muḥammad ibn ʿAbd AllāhFull name : Abū al-Qāsim Muḥammad ibn ʿAbd Allāh ibn ʿAbd al-Muṭṭalib ibn Hāshim -LRB- ابو القاسم محمد ابن عبد الله ابن عبد المطلب ابن هاشم , lit : Father of Qasim Muhammad son of Abd Allah son of Abdul-Muttalib son of Hashim -RRB- -LRB- محمد -LSB- muħammad -RSB- ; Classical Arabic pronunciation c. 570 CE -- 8 June 632 CE -RRB- is the prophet of Islam and widely identified as its founder by non-Muslims . According to Islamic doctrine , he was God 's Messenger -LRB- rasūl Allāh -RRB- sent to confirm the essential teachings of monotheism preached previously by Adam , Abraham , Moses , Jesus , and other prophets . He is viewed as the final prophet of God in primary branches of Islam , though some modern denominations diverge from this belief.The Ahmadiyya Muslim Community considers Muhammad to be the `` Seal of the Prophets '' -LRB- Khātam an-Nabiyyīn -RRB- and the last law-bearing Prophet but not the last Prophet . See :   There are also smaller sects which believe Muhammad to be not the last Prophet :  The Nation of Islam considers Elijah Muhammad to be a prophet -LRB- source : African American Religious Leaders -- p. 76 , Jim Haskins , Kathleen Benson -- 2008 -RRB- .  United Submitters International consider Rashad Khalifa to be a prophet . -LRB- Source : Daniel Pipes , Miniatures : Views of Islamic and Middle Eastern Politics , p. 98 -LRB- 2004 -RRB- -RRB- Muhammad united Arabia into a single Muslim polity and ensured that his teachings , practices , and the Quran , formed the basis of Islamic religious belief .   Born approximately 570CE -LRB- Year of the Elephant -RRB- in the Arabian city of Mecca , Muhammad was orphaned at an early age ; he was raised under the care of his paternal uncle Abu Talib . Periodically , he would seclude himself in a mountain cave named Hira for several nights of prayer ; later , at age 40 , he reported being visited by Gabriel in the cave , where he stated he received his first revelation from God . Three years later , in 610 , Muhammad started preaching these revelations publicly , proclaiming that `` God is One '' , that complete `` surrender '' -LRB- lit . islām -RRB- to him is the right course of action -LRB- dīn -RRB- , and that he was a prophet and messenger of God , similar to the other prophets in Islam .   Muhammad gained few early followers , and met hostility from some Meccan tribes . To escape persecution , Muhammad sent some followers to Abyssinia before he and his followers migrated from Mecca to Medina -LRB- then known as Yathrib -RRB- in the year 622 . This event , the Hijra , marks the beginning of the Islamic calendar , also known as the Hijri Calendar . In Medina , Muhammad united the tribes under the Constitution of Medina . In December 629 , after eight years of intermittent conflict with Meccan tribes , Muhammad gathered an army of 10,000 Muslim converts and marched on the city of Mecca . The attack went largely uncontested and Muhammad seized the city with little bloodshed . In 632 , a few months after returning from the Farewell Pilgrimage , he fell ill and died . Before his death , most of the Arabian Peninsula had converted to Islam .   The revelations -LRB- each known as Ayah , lit . `` Sign -LSB- of God -RSB- '' -RRB- , which Muhammad reported receiving until his death , form the verses of the Quran , regarded by Muslims as the `` Word of God '' and around which the religion is based . Besides the Quran , Muhammad 's teachings and practices -LRB- sunnah -RRB- , found in the Hadith and sira literature , are also upheld by Muslims and used as sources of Islamic law -LRB- see Sharia -RRB- . 
The Constitution of Medina -LRB- دستور المدينة , Dastūr al-Madīnah -RRB- , also known as the Charter of Medina -LRB- صحيفة المدينة , Ṣaḥīfat al-Madīnah ; or : ميثاق المدينة , Mīthāq al-Madīnah -RRB- , was drafted by the Islamic prophet Muhammad shortly after his arrival at Medina -LRB- then known as Yathrib -RRB- in 622 CE -LRB- or 1 AH -RRB- , following the Hijra from Mecca .   The preamble declares the document to be `` a book -LSB- kitab -RSB- of the prophet Muhammad to operate between the believers -LSB- mu ` minin -RSB- and Muslims from the Quraysh tribe and from Yathrib and those who may be under them and wage war in their company '' declaring them to constitute `` one nation -LSB- ummah wāḥidah -RSB- separate from all peoples '' . The constitution established the collective responsibility of nine constituent tribes for their members ' actions , specifically emphasising blood money and ransom payment . The first constituent group mentioned are the Qurayshi migrants , and then eight other tribes . Eight Jewish groups are recognized as part of the Yathrib community , and their religious separation from Muslims is established . The Jewish Banu Ash shutbah tribe are inserted as one of the Jewish groups , rather than with the nine tribes mentioned earlier in the document . The constitution also established Muhammad as the mediating authority between groups and forbids the waging of war without his authorization .   The constitution formed the basis of a multi-religious Islamic state in Medina .   The constitution was created to end the bitter inter-tribal fighting between the rival clans of Banu Aws and Banu Khazraj in Medina , and to maintain peace and cooperation among all Medinan groups . Establishing the role of Muhammad as the mediating authority between these two groups and all others in Medina was central to the ending of Medinan internal violence and was an essential feature of the constitution . The document ensured freedom of religious beliefs and practices for all citizens who `` follow the believers '' . It assured that representatives of all parties , Muslim or non-Muslim , should be present when consultation occurs or in cases of negotiation with foreign states . It declared `` a woman will only be given protection with the consent of her family '' , and imposed a tax system for supporting the community in times of conflict . It declared the role of Medina as a ḥaram -LRB- حرم , `` sacred place '' -RRB- , where no blood of the peoples included in the pact can be spilled .   The division of the constitution into numbered articles is not in the original text and , consequently , the numbering of clauses differs in different sources but there is general agreement on the authenticity of the most widely read version of the charter that is found in the pages of Ibn Ishaq 's Sirah Rasul Allah . 