Selena Marie Gomez -LRB- -LSB- səˈliːnə_məˈɹiː_ˈɡoʊmɛz -RSB- ; -LSB- seˈlena ˈɣomes -RSB- ; born July 22 , 1992 -RRB- is an American actress and singer . Having appeared in the children 's television series Barney & Friends while growing up , she rose to fame playing the role of Alex Russo on the Disney Channel series Wizards of Waverly Place -LRB- 2007 -- 2012 -RRB- .   In 2008 , she signed a recording contract with Hollywood Records and formed her band Selena Gomez & the Scene . The band released three studio albums and produced four top 30 singles by 2011 . Gomez also formed her own production company in 2008 , July Moon Productions ; she serves as an executive producer on the Netflix original series 13 Reasons Why , which released in March 2017 .   Between 2009 and 2011 , Gomez starred in films such as Princess Protection Program , Ramona and Beezus , and Monte Carlo , and took on a more mature role in Spring Breakers -LRB- 2013 -RRB- . Gomez also took her singing career in a different direction , with the release of her first solo album Stars Dance -LRB- 2013 -RRB- ; the album debuted atop the Billboard 200 in the United States and included the top ten single `` Come & Get It . '' Gomez released a compilation album in 2014 as her fifth and final release through Hollywood Records , which was preceded by her second top ten single `` The Heart Wants What It Wants '' , and signed a new recording contract with Interscope Records .   In 2015 , she released her second solo album , Revival , which debuted at number one on the Billboard 200 , while the first three singles , `` Good for You , '' `` Same Old Love , '' and `` Hands to Myself , '' all topped the Mainstream Top 40 chart in the United States . Gomez has also starred in the films The Fundamentals of Caring -LRB- 2016 -RRB- , In Dubious Battle -LRB- 2016 -RRB- , and in the Hotel Transylvania films .   Since the start of her singing career , she has gone on to sell over 7 million albums and 22 million singles worldwide , according to Billboard . Gomez has earned a number of awards and nominations for her work as an actress and singer , and has won a Billboard Women in Music award , an MTV Video Music Award , an American Music Award , and fifteen Teen Choice Awards . As of November 2016 , Gomez is the most-followed Instagram user in the world . 
Spring Breakers is a 2012 American film written and directed by Harmony Korine . It stars James Franco , Vanessa Hudgens , Selena Gomez , Ashley Benson and Rachel Korine and follows four college-aged girls on their spring break in Florida where they meet an eccentric local drug dealer named Alien who helps them in a time of desperation , and their eventual descent into a world of drugs , crime , and violence .   Korine had devised the concept for Spring Breakers over several years prior to production , with fleeting ideas about the plot and what should transpire . His initial desire was to create a `` sensory film '' that was more about feeling than action and placed little importance on narrative or plot , the idea for which came later . Once Korine developed the backbone of the story , which takes place around the American spring break period , he travelled to Florida to write the screenplay . Production began in 2012 , on an estimated budget of $ 5 million -- a relatively small amount in today 's film industry , albeit Korine 's second most expensive film to date . The film is also one of Korine 's first theatrical works to receive a wide release .   Spring Breakers was released on March 22 , 2013 in the United States by A24 and grossed $ 31 million worldwide , making it a resounding success considering the small budget . It received generally positive reviews from film critics , with some calling it a potential cult classic . The film was selected to compete for the Golden Lion at the 69th Venice International Film Festival . Critics and scholars have read deeper meaning in the film 's plot , commenting on its reflection of modern-day superficiality and the younger generation 's obsession with highly stylised pop culture media . 