Elementary is an American procedural drama series that presents a contemporary update of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 's character Sherlock Holmes . The series was created by Robert Doherty and stars Jonny Lee Miller as Sherlock Holmes and Lucy Liu as Dr. Joan Watson . The series premiered on CBS on September 27 , 2012 . The series is set and filmed primarily in New York City .   The show follows Holmes , a recovering drug addict and former consultant to Scotland Yard , as he assists the New York City Police Department in solving crimes . His indifference to police procedure often leads to conflict with Captain Thomas Gregson -LRB- Aidan Quinn -RRB- , although the two still remain mutually respectful of one another . He is accompanied by Dr. Joan Watson -LRB- Lucy Liu -RRB- , who initially acts as his sober companion . She is a former surgeon and was hired by Sherlock 's father to help him in his rehabilitation . They eventually begin to work together on his cases , and she becomes Holmes ' apprentice . The series also features Holmes ' ongoing conflict with his nemesis Jamie Moriarty -LRB- Natalie Dormer -RRB- . Other supporting roles include Jon Michael Hill as Detective Marcus Bell , Rhys Ifans as Sherlock 's brother , Mycroft Holmes , and John Noble as Sherlock 's father , Morland Holmes .   Before the series premiered , it was met with some criticism given it followed closely on the heels of the BBC 's modern adaptation Sherlock . After the premiere , it was picked up for a full season and later an extra two episodes . The season two premiere was partly filmed on location in London . The series has since been well received by critics , who have praised the performances , writing , and novel approach to the source material . On March 25 , 2016 , CBS renewed the series for a fifth season , which premiered on October 2 , 2016 . On May 13 , 2017 , CBS renewed the series for a sixth season . 
Lucy Alexis Liu -LRB- born Lucy Liu ; December 2 , 1968 -RRB- is an American actress , voice actress , director , producer , singer and artist . She became known for playing the role of the vicious and ill-mannered Ling Woo in the television series Ally McBeal -LRB- 1998 -- 2002 -RRB- , for which she was nominated for a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Comedy Series and a Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Comedy Series . Liu 's film work includes starring as one of the heroines in Charlie 's Angels -LRB- 2000 -RRB- , portraying O-Ren Ishii in Kill Bill -LRB- 2003 -RRB- , and starring roles in the main casts of Payback -LRB- 1999 -RRB- , Chicago -LRB- 2002 -RRB- , and the animated film series Kung Fu Panda -LRB- 2008 -- present -RRB- portraying the character Master Viper .   In 2008 , she starred in an ABC comedy-drama , Cashmere Mafia , which ended after one abbreviated season . The show was one of only a few American television shows to have an Asian American series lead . In 2012 , Liu joined the cast of the TNT series Southland in the recurring role of Jessica Tang , for which she won the Critics ' Choice Television Award for Best Drama Guest Actress . She is currently co-starring in the Sherlock Holmes -- inspired crime drama series Elementary as Joan Watson for which she won the Seoul International Drama Award for Best Actress , and voicing Silvermist in Disney 's Tinker Bell film series . 