Ruth Negga -LRB- -LSB- ˈneɪgə -RSB- born 7 January 1982 -RRB- is an Ethiopian born Irish actress , who has appeared in the films Capital Letters -LRB- 2004 -RRB- -LRB- also released as Trafficked in some countries -RRB- , Isolation -LRB- 2005 -RRB- , Breakfast on Pluto -LRB- 2005 -RRB- and Warcraft -LRB- 2016 -RRB- . She has also played roles in television , such as in the BBC 's mini-series Criminal Justice , RTÉ 's Love/Hate , E4 's Misfits , and ABC 's Marvel 's Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. . In 2016 , she began a starring role as Tulip O'Hare in AMC 's Preacher .   For her portrayal of Mildred Loving in Loving -LRB- 2016 -RRB- , Negga was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Actress , Golden Globe Award for Best Actress in a Motion Picture - Drama , Independent Spirit Award for Best Female Lead and Critics ' Choice Movie Award for Best Actress , as well as the BAFTA Rising Star Award . 
Warcraft -LRB- alternatively known as Warcraft : The Beginning -RRB- is a 2016 American action-fantasy film directed by Duncan Jones and written by Jones , Charles Leavitt , and Chris Metzen . It is based on the Warcraft video game series and novels set in the world of Azeroth . The film stars Travis Fimmel , Paula Patton , Ben Foster , Dominic Cooper , Toby Kebbell , Ben Schnetzer , Robert Kazinsky , Clancy Brown , and Daniel Wu . The film portrays the initial encounters between the humans and the orcs and takes place in a variety of locations established in the video game series . The film was first announced in 2006 as a project partnership between Legendary Pictures and the game 's developer , Blizzard Entertainment .   Warcraft premiered in Paris on May 24 , 2016 , and was released by Universal Pictures in the United States on June 10 , 2016 . The film grossed $ 433 million worldwide and is the highest-grossing video game adaptation of all time , although it was still considered a mild financial disappointment due to its very large $ 160 million budget . The film made over $ 220 million in China alone , representing more than half of its global total box office . 