Morena Silva de Vaz Setta Baccarin -LRB- -LSB- moˈɾenɐ ˈbakaɾĩ -RSB- ; born June 2 , 1979 -RRB- is a Brazilian American actress . She is known for portraying Inara Serra in the series Firefly and the follow-up film Serenity , Adria in the series Stargate SG-1 and the follow-up film Stargate : The Ark of Truth , Anna in the 2009 version of the series V , Vanessa in the superhero comedy film Deadpool , and Jessica Brody in the Showtime series Homeland -LRB- for which she received an Emmy nomination for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Drama Series in 2013 -RRB- . She plays the role of Dr. Leslie Thompkins in the Fox television series Gotham . 
Homeland is an American spy thriller television series developed by Howard Gordon and Alex Gansa based on the Israeli series Prisoners of War -LRB- Original title חטופים Hatufim , literally `` Abductees '' -RRB- , which was created by Gideon Raff .   The series stars Claire Danes as Carrie Mathison , a Central Intelligence Agency officer with bipolar disorder , and Damian Lewis as Nicholas Brody , a U.S. Marine Corps Scout Sniper . Mathison had come to believe that Brody , who was held captive by al-Qaeda as a prisoner of war , was `` turned '' by the enemy and poses a threat to the United States .   The series is broadcast in the U.S. on the cable channel Showtime , and is produced by Fox 21 Television Studios -LRB- formerly Fox 21 -RRB- . It premiered on October 2 , 2011 . The first episode was made available online , more than two weeks before the television broadcast , with viewers having to complete game tasks to gain access . On October 22 , 2013 , Showtime renewed Homeland for a fourth season , which premiered on October 5 , 2014 . On November 10 , 2014 , Showtime renewed the series for a 12-episode fifth season that premiered on October 4 , 2015 . On December 9 , 2015 , the series was renewed for a sixth season . The sixth season debuted on January 15 , 2017 . The series has also been renewed for a seventh and eighth season ; the eighth is planned to be the series ' final season by the creators .   The series has received generally positive reviews , and has won several awards , including the 2012 Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Drama Series , and the 2011 and 2012 Golden Globe Award for Best Television Series -- Drama , as well as the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama Series and Lead Actress in a Drama Series for Damian Lewis and Claire Danes , respectively . 
The Ori -LSB- ˈɒraɪ -RSB- are fictional characters in the science fiction television series , Stargate SG-1 . They are a group of `` ascended '' beings who use their advanced technology and knowledge of the universe to attempt to trick non-ascended humans into worshipping them as gods .   They first appeared in the ninth season of Stargate SG-1 , replacing the Goa'uld as the show 's primary antagonists . While the Goa'uld relied on stolen technology from other civilizations to pose as gods , the Ori also have paranormal abilities in addition to very advanced technology . As Ascended beings , they live on a higher plane of existence with great power and knowledge and are as close to being `` gods '' as any non-deific being can be .  The Ori fabricated a religion called Origin , which they use in an attempt to control non-ascended beings . The Ori also attempt to destroy any planets and civilizations that reject Origin . 
Firefly is an American space western drama television series created by writer and director Joss Whedon , under his Mutant Enemy Productions label . Whedon served as an executive producer , along with Tim Minear . The series is set in the year 2517 , after the arrival of humans in a new star system and follows the adventures of the renegade crew of Serenity , a `` Firefly-class '' spaceship . The ensemble cast portrays the nine characters who live on Serenity . Whedon pitched the show as `` nine people looking into the blackness of space and seeing nine different things '' .   The show explores the lives of a group of people who fought on the losing side of a civil war and others who now make a living on the fringe of society , as part of the pioneer culture of their star system . In this future , the only two surviving superpowers , the United States and China , fused to form the central federal government , called the Alliance , resulting in the fusion of the two cultures . According to Whedon 's vision , `` nothing will change in the future : technology will advance , but we will still have the same political , moral , and ethical problems as today '' .   Firefly premiered in the U.S. on the Fox network on September 20 , 2002 . By mid-December , Firefly had averaged 4.7 million viewers per episode and was 98th in Nielsen ratings . It was canceled after eleven of the fourteen produced episodes were aired . Despite the relatively short life span of the series , it received strong sales when it was released on DVD and has large fan support campaigns . It won a Primetime Emmy Award in 2003 for Outstanding Special Visual Effects for a Series . TV Guide ranked the series at No. 5 on their 2013 list of 60 shows that were `` Cancelled Too Soon '' .   The post-airing success of the show led Whedon and Universal Pictures to produce Serenity , a 2005 film which continues from the story of the series , and the Firefly franchise expanded to other media , including comics and a role-playing game . 