Slovenia -LRB- -LSB- sloʊˈviːniə , _ slə - , _ - njə -RSB- ; Slovenija -LSB- slɔˈʋéːnija -RSB- -RRB- , officially the Republic of Slovenia -LRB- Slovene : , abbr. : RS -RRB- , is a nation state in southern Central Europe , located at the crossroads of main European cultural and trade routes . It is bordered by Italy to the west , Austria to the north , Hungary to the northeast , Croatia to the south and southeast , and the Adriatic Sea to the southwest . It covers 20,273 km2 and has a population of 2.06 million . It is a parliamentary republic and a member of the United Nations , European Union , and NATO . The capital and largest city is Ljubljana .   The territory is mostly mountainous with a mainly continental climate , with the exception of the Slovene Littoral that has a sub-Mediterranean climate and the north-western area that has an Alpine climate . Additionally , the Dinaric Alps and the Pannonian Plain meet on the territory of Slovenia . The country , marked by a significant biological diversity , is one of the most water-rich in Europe , with a dense river network , a rich aquifer system , and significant karst underground watercourses . Over half of the territory is covered by forest . The human settlement of Slovenia is dispersed and uneven .   Slovenia has historically been the crossroads of South Slavic , Germanic , Romance , and Hungarian languages and culture . Although the population is not homogeneous , the majority is Slovene . South Slavic language Slovene is the official language throughout the country . Slovenia is a largely secularized country , but its culture and identity have been significantly influenced by Catholicism as well as Lutheranism . The economy of Slovenia is small , open , and export-oriented and has been strongly influenced by international conditions . It has been severely hurt by the Eurozone crisis , started in the late 2000s . The main economic field is services , followed by industry and construction .   Historically , the current territory of Slovenia was part of many different state formations , including the Roman Empire and the Holy Roman Empire , followed by the Habsburg Monarchy . In October 1918 , the Slovenes exercised self-determination for the first time by co-founding the State of Slovenes , Croats and Serbs . In December 1918 , they merged with the Kingdom of Serbia into the Kingdom of Serbs , Croats and Slovenes -LRB- renamed Kingdom of Yugoslavia in 1929 -RRB- . During World War II , Slovenia was occupied and annexed by Germany , Italy , and Hungary , with a tiny area transferred to the Independent State of Croatia , a Nazi puppet state . Afterward , it was a founding member of the Federal People 's Republic of Yugoslavia , later renamed the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia , a communist state which was the only country in the Eastern Bloc which was never part of the Warsaw Pact . In June 1991 , after the introduction of multi-party representative democracy , Slovenia split from Yugoslavia and became an independent country . In 2004 , it entered NATO and the European Union ; in 2007 became the first formerly communist country to join the Eurozone ; and in 2010 joined the OECD , a global association of high-income developed countries . 
The eurozone , officially called the euro area , is a monetary union of 19 of the 28 European Union -LRB- EU -RRB- member states which have adopted the euro as their common currency and sole legal tender . The monetary authority of the eurozone is the Eurosystem . The other nine members of the European Union continue to use their own national currencies , although most of them are obliged to adopt the euro in future .   The eurozone consists of Austria , Belgium , Cyprus , Estonia , Finland , France , Germany , Greece , Ireland , Italy , Latvia , Lithuania , Luxembourg , Malta , the Netherlands , Portugal , Slovakia , Slovenia , and Spain . Other EU states -LRB- except for Denmark and the United Kingdom -RRB- are obliged to join once they meet the criteria to do so . No state has left , and there are no provisions to do so or to be expelled . Andorra , Monaco , San Marino , and Vatican City have formal agreements with the EU to use the euro as their official currency and issue their own coins . Kosovo and Montenegro have adopted the euro unilaterally , but these countries do not officially form part of the eurozone and do not have representation in the European Central Bank -LRB- ECB -RRB- or in the Eurogroup .   The ECB , which is governed by a president and a board of the heads of national central banks , sets the monetary policy of the zone . The principal task of the ECB is to keep inflation under control . Though there is no common representation , governance or fiscal policy for the currency union , some co-operation does take place through the Eurogroup , which makes political decisions regarding the eurozone and the euro . The Eurogroup is composed of the finance ministers of eurozone states , but in emergencies , national leaders also form the Eurogroup .   Since the financial crisis of 2007 -- 08 , the eurozone has established and used provisions for granting emergency loans to member states in return for the enactment of economic reforms . The eurozone has also enacted some limited fiscal integration , for example in peer review of each other 's national budgets . The issue is political and in a state of flux in terms of what further provisions will be agreed for eurozone change . 