The Star Trek film series is the cinematic branch of the Star Trek media franchise , which began in 1966 as a weekly television series on NBC , running for three seasons until it was canceled in 1969 because of poor ratings . Reruns of the series proved to be wildly successful in syndication during the 1970s , which persuaded the series ' then-owner , Paramount Pictures , to expand the franchise .   Paramount originally began work on a Star Trek feature film in 1975 after lobbying by the creator of the franchise , Gene Roddenberry . The studio scrapped the project two years later in favor of creating a television series , Star Trek : Phase II , with the original cast . However , following the huge success of Star Wars and Close Encounters of the Third Kind in 1977 , Paramount changed its mind again , halting production on the television series and adapting its pilot episode into a Star Trek feature film , Star Trek : The Motion Picture -LRB- 1979 -RRB- . Five more Star Trek feature films featuring the entire original cast followed . The cast of the 1987 -- 1994 Star Trek spin-off series Star Trek : The Next Generation starred in a further four films . After a 6-year hiatus following the release of Star Trek : Nemesis -LRB- 2002 -RRB- , a new film was released on May 16 , 2009 , simply titled Star Trek , serving as a reboot to the franchise with a new cast portraying younger versions of the original series ' characters . A sequel to Star Trek -LRB- 2009 -RRB- , Star Trek Into Darkness , was released in theaters on May 16 , 2013 . A second sequel , Star Trek Beyond , was released on July 22 , 2016 , on the franchise 's 50th anniversary .   The Star Trek films have received 15 Academy Award nominations . Star Trek -LRB- 2009 -RRB- won for Best Makeup in 2010 , and four of the previous films were nominated mainly in the areas of makeup , music , set design and sound design .   The early Star Trek films , the first to tenth film , were originally released on VHS ; competitive pricing of The Wrath of Khans videocassette helped bolster the adoption of VHS players in households . Later films were also released on LaserDisc as well . For those films that did not receive an initial DVD release , Paramount released simple one-disc versions with no special features . Later , the first ten films were released in two-disc collector 's versions , with The Motion Picture and The Wrath of Khan branded as `` director 's cuts '' , followed by later box set releases . All of the films are now available on Blu-ray , digital download , streaming media and video on demand . 
Star Trek is a 2009 American science fiction adventure film directed by J. J. Abrams and written by Roberto Orci and Alex Kurtzman . It is the eleventh film in the Star Trek film franchise , and is also a reboot that features the main characters of the original Star Trek television series portrayed by a new cast , as the first in the rebooted film series . The film follows James T. Kirk -LRB- Chris Pine -RRB- and Spock -LRB- Zachary Quinto -RRB- aboard USS Enterprise as they combat Nero -LRB- Eric Bana -RRB- , a Romulan from their future who threatens the United Federation of Planets . The story takes place in an alternate reality because of time travel by both Nero and the original Spock -LRB- Leonard Nimoy -RRB- . The alternate timeline was created in an attempt to free the film and the franchise from established continuity constraints while simultaneously preserving original story elements .   The idea for a prequel film which would follow the Star Trek characters during their time in Starfleet Academy was discussed by series creator Gene Roddenberry in 1968 . The concept resurfaced in the late 1980s , when it was postulated by Harve Bennett as a possible plotline for what would become Star Trek VI : The Undiscovered Country , but was rejected in lieu of other projects by Roddenberry . Following the critical and commercial failure of Star Trek : Nemesis and the cancellation of the television series Star Trek : Enterprise , the franchise 's executive producer Rick Berman and screenwriter Erik Jendresen wrote an unproduced film titled Star Trek : The Beginning , which would take place after Enterprise . After the separation of Viacom and CBS Corporation in 2005 , former Paramount Pictures president Gail Berman convinced CBS to allow Paramount to produce a new film in the franchise . Orci and Kurtzman , both fans of Star Trek , were approached to write the film , and J. J. Abrams was approached to direct it . Kurtzman and Orci used inspiration from novels and graduate school dissertations , as well as the series itself . Principal photography commenced on November 7 , 2007 and ended on March 27 , 2008 . The film was shot in various locations around California and Utah . Abrams wanted to avoid using bluescreen and greenscreen , opting to use sets and locations instead . Heavy secrecy surrounded the film 's production and was under the fake working title Corporate Headquarters . Industrial Light & Magic used digital ships for the film , as opposed to the previous films in the franchise . Production for the film concluded by the end of 2008 .   Star Trek was heavily promoted in the months preceding its release ; pre-release screenings for the film premiered in select cities around the world , including Austin , Texas , Sydney , Australia , and Calgary , Alberta . It was released in the United States and Canada on May 8 , 2009 , to critical acclaim ; critics praised its character development , as well as its storyline , effects , stunts , action sequences , direction , and its score by Michael Giacchino . Star Trek was a box office success , grossing over $ 385.7 million worldwide against its $ 150 million production budget . It was nominated for several awards , including four Academy Awards at the 82nd Academy Awards , ultimately winning Best Makeup , making it the first Star Trek film to win an Academy Award . It was followed by two sequels , Star Trek Into Darkness -LRB- 2013 -RRB- and Star Trek Beyond -LRB- 2016 -RRB- , with a fourth having been announced . 