Elizabeth Woolridge Grant -LRB- born June 21 , 1985 -RRB- , better known by her stage name Lana Del Rey , is an American singer , songwriter , and model . Her music has been noted for its cinematic style , its preoccupation with themes of tragic romance and melancholia , and its references to pop culture , particularly 1950s and 1960s Americana .   Born and raised in New York , Del Rey embarked on a music career in 2005 and first received widespread attention in 2011 , when the music video for her single `` Video Games '' became a viral internet sensation . Del Rey received further recognition after her major-label debut Born to Die peaked at number two on the United States charts and was the fifth best-selling album of 2012 . A remix of its single `` Summertime Sadness '' , produced by Cedric Gervais , peaked at number six in the United States , and the Paradise EP followed that November , garnering Del Rey her first Grammy nomination for Best Pop Vocal Album . Three of the EP 's tracks were featured in her short film Tropico , which premiered in December 2013 .   In 2014 , Del Rey released her third studio album , Ultraviolence ; it became her first number-one album in the United States . In 2015 , following a North American tour with Courtney Love and Grimes , Del Rey released her fourth studio album , Honeymoon . Both albums received positive critical response .   Del Rey is set to release her fifth studio album , titled Lust for Life , on July 21 , 2017 . 
Paradise is the third extended play -LRB- EP -RRB- and second major release by American singer and songwriter Lana Del Rey ; it was released on November 9 , 2012 by Universal Music . It is additionally packaged with the reissue of her second studio album Born to Die -LRB- 2012 -RRB- , titled Born to Die : The Paradise Edition . Del Rey enlisted collaborators including producers Rick Nowels , Justin Parker , and Rick Rubin .   Upon its release , Paradise received generally favorable reviews from music critics . The extended play debuted at number 10 on the US Billboard 200 with first-week sales of 67,000 copies . It also debuted at number 10 on the Canadian Albums Chart and peaked within the top-five of various other Billboard charts . Charting across Europe , the extended play became a top-ten hit in Flanders and Poland , charting within the top twenty in Wallonia and the Netherlands .   The EP 's lead single was the ballad `` Ride '' which became a modest hit in the United States , Switzerland , Ireland , and France and reached the top ten in Russia . `` Blue Velvet '' , a cover of the popular 1950s track , and `` Burning Desire '' were released as promotional singles . Music videos for `` Ride '' , `` Blue Velvet '' , `` Bel Air '' , and `` Burning Desire '' were posted to Vevo and YouTube to help promote the EP .   In December 2013 , Del Rey released the Anthony Mandler-directed Tropico , a short film that includes the songs `` Body Electric '' , `` Gods & Monsters '' , and `` Bel Air '' . That same month , an EP of the same name was made available for purchase on iTunes , containing the film along with the three aforementioned songs . In 2014 , the EP was nominated for Best Pop Vocal Album at the 56th Annual Grammy Awards . 