London -LSB- ˈlʌndən -RSB- is the capital and most populous city of England and the United Kingdom . Standing on the River Thames in the south east of the island of Great Britain , London has been a major settlement for two millennia . It was founded by the Romans , who named it Londinium . London 's ancient core , the City of London , largely retains its 1.12 sqmi medieval boundaries . Since at least the 19th century , `` London '' has also referred to the metropolis around this core , historically split between Middlesex , Essex , Surrey , Kent , and Hertfordshire , which today largely makes up Greater London , See also : Independent city § National capitals . governed by the Mayor of London and the London Assembly.The London Mayor is not to be confused with the Lord Mayor of London who heads the City of London Corporation , which administers the City of London .   London is a leading global city in the arts , commerce , education , entertainment , fashion , finance , healthcare , media , professional services , research and development , tourism , and transportation . It is crowned as the world 's largest financial centre and has the fifth - or sixth-largest metropolitan area GDP in the world.Rankings of cities by metropolitan area GDP can vary as a result of differences in the definition of the boundaries and population sizes of the areas compared , exchange rate fluctuations and the method used to calculate output . London and Paris are of broadly similar size in terms of total economic output which can result in third party sources varying as to which is the fifth-largest city GDP in the world . A report by the McKinsey Global Institute published in 2012 estimated that London had a city GDP of US$ 751.8 billion in 2010 , compared to US$ 764.2 billion for Paris , making them respectively the sixth - and fifth-largest in the world . A report by PricewaterhouseCoopers published in November 2009 estimated that London had a city GDP measured in purchasing power parity of US$ 565 billion in 2008 , compared to US$ 564 billion for Paris , making them respectively the fifth - and sixth-largest in the world . The McKinsey Global Institute study used a metropolitan area with a population of 14.9 million for London compared to 11.8 million for Paris , whilst the PricewaterhouseCoopers study used a metropolitan area with a population of 8.59 million for London compared to 9.92 million for Paris . London is a world cultural capital . It is the world 's most-visited city as measured by international arrivals and has the world 's largest city airport system measured by passenger traffic . London is the world 's leading investment destination , hosting more international retailers and ultra high-net-worth individuals than any other city . London 's universities form the largest concentration of higher education institutes in Europe . In 2012 , London became the first city to have hosted the modern Summer Olympic Games three times .   London has a diverse range of people and cultures , and more than 300 languages are spoken in the region . Its estimated mid-2015 municipal population -LRB- corresponding to Greater London -RRB- was 8,673,713 , the largest of any city in the European Union , and accounting for 12.5 % of the UK population . London 's urban area is the second most populous in the EU , after Paris , with 9,787,426 inhabitants at the 2011 census . The city 's metropolitan area is the most populous in the EU with 13,879,757 inhabitants , while the Greater London Authority states the population of the city-region -LRB- covering a large part of the south east -RRB- as 22.7 million .  London was the world 's most populous city from around 1831 to 1925 .   London contains four World Heritage Sites : the Tower of London ; Kew Gardens ; the site comprising the Palace of Westminster , Westminster Abbey , and St Margaret 's Church ; and the historic settlement of Greenwich -LRB- in which the Royal Observatory , Greenwich marks the Prime Meridian , 0 ° longitude , and GMT -RRB- . Other famous landmarks include Buckingham Palace , the London Eye , Piccadilly Circus , St Paul 's Cathedral , Tower Bridge , Trafalgar Square , and The Shard . London is home to numerous museums , galleries , libraries , sporting events , and other cultural institutions , including the British Museum , National Gallery , Natural History Museum , Tate Modern , British Library , and West End theatres . The London Underground is the oldest underground railway network in the world . 
The City of London is a city and county that is an enclave of London . It constituted most of London from its settlement by the Romans in the 1st century AD to the Middle Ages , but the agglomeration has since grown far beyond the City 's borders . The City is now only a tiny part of the metropolis of London , though it remains a notable part of central London . Administratively , it forms one of the 33 local authority districts of Greater London ; however , the City of London is not a London borough , a status reserved for the other 32 districts -LRB- including London 's only other city , the City of Westminster -RRB- .   The City of London is widely referred to simply as the City -LRB- differentiated from the phrase `` the city of London '' by capitalising City -RRB- and is also colloquially known as the Square Mile , as it is 1.12 sqmi in area . Both of these terms are also often used as metonyms for the United Kingdom 's trading and financial services industries , which continue a notable history of being largely based in the City . The name London is now ordinarily used for a far wider area than just the City . London most often denotes the sprawling London metropolis , or the 32 London boroughs , in addition to the City of London itself . This wider usage of London is documented as far back as 1888 , when the County of London was created .   The local authority for the City , namely the City of London Corporation , is unique in the UK and has some unusual responsibilities for a local council , such as being the police authority . It is also unusual in having responsibilities and ownerships beyond its boundaries . The Corporation is headed by the Lord Mayor of the City of London , an office separate from -LRB- and much older than -RRB- the Mayor of London . The current Lord Mayor , as of November 2016 , is Andrew Parmley .   The City is a major business and financial centre . Throughout the 19th century , the City was the world 's primary business centre , and it continues to be a major meeting point for businesses . London came top in the Worldwide Centres of Commerce Index , published in 2008 . The insurance industry is focused around the eastern side of the City , around Lloyd 's building . A secondary financial district exists outside of the City , at Canary Wharf , 2.5 mi to the east .   The City has a resident population of about 7,000 -LRB- 2011 -RRB- but over 300,000 people commute to and work there , mainly in the financial services sector . The legal profession forms a major component of the northern and western sides of the City , especially in the Temple and Chancery Lane areas where the Inns of Court are located , of which two -- Inner Temple and Middle Temple -- fall within the City of London boundary . 