Shraddha Kapoor -LRB- born 3 March 1987 -RRB- is an Indian actress and singer who is noted for her work in Bollywood films . The daughter of actor Shakti Kapoor , she began her acting career with a brief role in the 2010 heist film Teen Patti and followed it with her first leading role in the teen drama Luv Ka The End -LRB- 2011 -RRB- .   Kapoor gained wide recognition for playing a singer in the commercially successful romantic drama Aashiqui 2 -LRB- 2013 -RRB- , for which she received several accolades including a Filmfare nomination for the Best Actress . The following year , she portrayed a character based on Ophelia in Vishal Bhardwaj 's critically acclaimed drama Haider -LRB- 2014 -RRB- , an adaptation of William Shakespeare 's tragedy Hamlet . She established herself as one of the high-profile actresses in Bollywood with starring roles in the romantic thriller Ek Villain -LRB- 2014 -RRB- , the dance drama ABCD 2 -LRB- 2015 -RRB- , the action drama Baaghi -LRB- 2016 -RRB- and the romantic drama Half Girlfriend -LRB- 2017 -RRB- , all of which rank among her biggest commercial successes .   In addition to acting in films , Kapoor has sung several of her film songs . She is the celebrity endorser for several brands and products , and in 2015 , she launched her own line of clothing . She participates in stage shows and concerts . Kapoor features in listings of the most attractive and popular celebrities in India . 
Aashiqui 2 -LRB- English : Romance 2 -RRB- is a 2013 Indian romantic musical drama film directed by Mohit Suri . Starring Aditya Roy Kapur and Shraddha Kapoor in the lead roles , it was produced by Bhushan Kumar and Mukesh Bhatt under the T-Series and Vishesh Films banners . Set in the early 2010s , Aashiqui 2 is a love story centering on the turbulent relationship between musicians Rahul and Arohi , a relationship which is affected by Rahul 's issues with alcohol abuse and temperament .   The film is a spiritual successor to the 1990 musical film Aashiqui , and initially caused concern in the Indian media that the film could live up to the high standards and success of the original . Production of Aashiqui 2 began in 2011 , with the principal photography taking place in Cape Town , Goa and Mumbai on a budget of .   The film which premiered on 26 April 2013 received a positive to mixed critical reception and became a major commercial success at the box-office despite featuring newcomers , earning worldwide within the first four weeks . It was declared as a blockbuster by Box Office India after its three-week box office run , and is the highest-grossing film ever produced by Vishesh Films . The soundtrack to the film became very popular after its release ; the songs `` Tum Hi Ho '' and `` Sunn Raha Hai '' topped the charts across various platforms in India . It was later remade in Telugu as Nee Jathaga Nenundali 