Financial crimes are crimes against property , involving the unlawful conversion of the ownership of property -LRB- belonging to one person -RRB- to one 's own personal use and benefit . Financial crimes may involve fraud -LRB- cheque fraud , credit card fraud , mortgage fraud , medical fraud , corporate fraud , securities fraud -LRB- including insider trading -RRB- , bank fraud , insurance fraud , market manipulation , payment -LRB- point of sale -RRB- fraud , health care fraud -RRB- ; theft ; scams or confidence tricks ; tax evasion ; bribery ; embezzlement ; identity theft ; money laundering ; and forgery and counterfeiting , including the production of Counterfeit money and consumer goods .   Financial crimes may involve additional criminal acts , such as computer crime , elder abuse , burglary , armed robbery , and even violent crime such as robbery or murder . Financial crimes may be carried out by individuals , corporations , or by organized crime groups . Victims may include individuals , corporations , governments , and entire economies . 
Robbery is the crime of taking or attempting to take anything of value by force , threat of force or by putting the victim in fear . At common law , robbery is defined as taking the property of another , with the intent to permanently deprive the person of that property , by means of force or fear . Precise definitions of the offence may vary between jurisdictions . Robbery is differentiated from other forms of theft -LRB- such as burglary , shoplifting or car theft -RRB- by its inherently violent nature -LRB- a violent crime -RRB- ; whereas many lesser forms of theft are punished as misdemeanors , robbery is always a felony in jurisdictions that distinguish between the two . Under English law , most forms of theft are triable either way , whereas robbery is triable only on indictment . The word `` rob '' came via French from Late Latin words -LRB- e.g. deraubare -RRB- of Germanic origin , from Common Germanic raub -- `` theft '' .   Among the types of robbery are armed robbery involving use of a weapon and aggravated robbery involving use of a deadly weapon or something that appears to be a deadly weapon . Highway robbery or `` mugging '' takes place outside or in a public place such as a sidewalk , street , or parking lot . Carjacking is the act of stealing a car from a victim by force . Extortion is the threat to do something illegal , or the offer to not do something illegal , in the event that goods are not given , primarily using words instead of actions .  Criminal slang for robbery includes `` blagging '' -LRB- armed robbery , usually of a bank -RRB- or `` stick-up '' -LRB- derived from the verbal command to robbery targets to raise their hands in the air -RRB- , and `` steaming '' -LRB- organized robbery on underground train systems -RRB- . 