Diane Ernestine Earle Ross -LRB- born March 26 , 1944 -RRB- is an American singer , songwriter , actress , and record producer . Born and raised in Detroit , Michigan , Ross rose to fame as the lead singer of the vocal group The Supremes , which , during the 1960s , became Motown 's most successful act , and is to this day the United States ' most successful vocal group , as well as one of the world 's best-selling girl groups of all time . Ross ' success as lead singer of The Supremes made it possible for future African-American R&B and soul acts to find mainstream success . The group released a record-setting twelve number-one hit singles on the US Billboard Hot 100 , including `` Where Did Our Love Go '' , `` Baby Love '' , `` Come See About Me '' , `` Stop ! In the Name of Love '' , `` You Ca n't Hurry Love '' , `` You Keep Me Hangin ' On '' , `` Love Child '' , and `` Someday We 'll Be Together '' .   Following her departure from The Supremes in 1970 , Ross released her eponymous debut solo album that same year , which contained the Top 20 Pop hit `` Reach Out and Touch -LRB- Somebody 's Hand -RRB- '' and the number-one Pop hit `` Ai n't No Mountain High Enough '' . She later released the album Touch Me in the Morning in 1973 ; its title track reached number 1 , as her second solo hit . That same year , her album `` Lady Sings The Blues '' , which was the original soundtrack of her film based on the life of jazz singer Billie Holiday , went to no. 1 on the Billboard Hot 200 Albums Chart , selling more than 300,000 copies within its first 8 days of release . By 1975 , the Mahogany soundtrack included her third number-one hit , `` Theme from Mahogany -LRB- Do You Know Where You 're Going To -RRB- '' . Her eponymous 1976 album included her fourth number-one hit , `` Love Hangover '' . In 1979 , Ross released the album The Boss . Her 1980 semi-eponymous album Diana reached number 2 on the US Billboard albums chart , and spawned the number-one hit `` Upside Down '' , and the international hit `` I 'm Coming Out '' . After leaving Motown , Ross achieved her sixth and final US number-one Pop hit , with the duet `` Endless Love '' , composed for the Brooke Shields film of the same name , by and performed with former Commodores front man , Lionel Richie . Ross and Richie performed the song on the telecast for the 54th Academy Awards , where the song was nominated in the category of `` Best Song '' .   Ross has also ventured into acting , with a Golden Globe Award and Academy Award-nominated performance for her performance in the film Lady Sings the Blues -LRB- 1972 -RRB- . She also starred in two other films , Mahogany -LRB- 1975 -RRB- and The Wiz -LRB- 1978 -RRB- , later acting in the television films Out of Darkness -LRB- 1994 -RRB- , for which she also was nominated for a Golden Globe Award , and Double Platinum -LRB- 1999 -RRB- . Ross was named the `` Female Entertainer of the Century '' by Billboard magazine . In 1993 , the Guinness Book of World Records declared Ross the most successful female music artist in history , due to her success in the United States and United Kingdom for having more hits than any female artist in the charts , with a career total of 70 hit singles with her work with the Supremes and as a solo artist . Ross has sold more than 100 million records worldwide , when her releases with the Supremes and as a solo artist are tallied . In 1988 , Ross was inducted to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame as member of the Supremes , alongside Mary Wilson and Florence Ballard . She was the recipient of the Kennedy Center Honors in 2007 , and the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 2016 . She is a 12-time Grammy nominee , never earning a competitive honor , but later became the recipient of the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award in 2012 . In December 2016 , Billboard magazine named her the 50th most successful dance artist of all time . 
The Supremes were an American female singing group and the premier act of Motown Records during the 1960s . Founded as the Primettes in Detroit , Michigan , in 1959 , the Supremes were the most commercially successful of Motown 's acts and are , to date , America 's most successful vocal group with 12 number one singles on the Billboard Hot 100 . Most of these hits were written and produced by Motown 's main songwriting and production team , Holland -- Dozier -- Holland . At their peak in the mid-1960s , the Supremes rivaled the Beatles in worldwide popularity , and it is said that their success made it possible for future African American R&B and soul musicians to find mainstream success .   Founding members Florence Ballard , Mary Wilson , Diana Ross , and Betty McGlown , all from the Brewster-Douglass public housing project in Detroit , formed the Primettes as the sister act to the Primes -LRB- with Paul Williams and Eddie Kendricks , who went on to form the Temptations -RRB- . Barbara Martin replaced McGlown in 1960 , and the group signed with Motown the following year as the Supremes . Martin left the act in early 1962 , and Ross , Ballard , and Wilson carried on as a trio .   During the mid-1960s , the Supremes achieved mainstream success with Ross as lead singer . In 1967 , Motown president Berry Gordy renamed the group Diana Ross & the Supremes , and replaced Ballard with Cindy Birdsong . Ross left to pursue a solo career in 1970 and was replaced by Jean Terrell , at which point the group 's name reverted to the Supremes . After 1972 , the lineup changed more frequently ; Lynda Laurence , Scherrie Payne , and Susaye Greene all became members of the group during the mid-1970s . The Supremes disbanded in 1977 after 18 years . 