J.Lo is the second studio album and most successful album to date by American entertainer Jennifer Lopez . It was released on January 23 , 2001 , by Epic Records . Preceding the release for the follow-up of her commercially successful debut album On the 6 -LRB- 1999 -RRB- . On this album , Lopez had more creative control over J.Lo . Its title refers to the nickname her fans gave her , and she described it as a homage to her supporters . Lopez began recording the album under the working title ` The Passionate Journey '' ' , writing lyrics that focused on her own personal experiences . For the album , she hired producers such as Cory Rooney , Troy Oliver , Dan Shea and Sean Combs , -LRB- her boyfriend at the time -RRB- , all of whom contributed to her first album . Musically , J.Lo is a pop album , which also encompasses genres such as R&B , Latin pop , retro and dance-pop . It was considered more daring than On the 6 , including more explicit language and provocative lyrics about sex ; it also deals with themes of empowerment and relationships .   Upon its release , the album received mixed reviews from music critics , who criticized its manufactured sound , although some praised its Spanish songs and dance material . Commercially , J.Lo became Lopez 's most successful album . The album debuted at number one on the US Billboard 200 , on the same week as her film The Wedding Planner '' , opened at the top of the domestic box office , making her the first entertainer to have both a number one film and album simultaneously . The album was certified quadruple platinum in the United States , and became the sixth best-selling album of the year worldwide .   `` Love Do n't Cost a Thing '' was released as the album 's lead single on December 2 , 2000 , which reached the top five in the United States and number one in United Kingdom . The album 's second single , `` Play '' -LRB- released on March 27 , 2001 -RRB- , reached the top twenty in most countries and top five in United Kingdom . The Latin pop song , titled `` Ai n't It Funny '' was released as the album 's third single on June 20 , 2001 . `` I 'm Real '' was serviced to radio as the album 's fourth and final single on September 4 , 2001 . To further its success , record executives at Epic recruited Ja Rule of Murder Inc Records , who is popular in the Urban market , to create a remix of the song , `` I 'm Real -LRB- Murder Remix -RRB- '' . The remix , which featured Ja Rule , shifted Lopez 's personal style from pop to a more hip-hop and urban-oriented sound . It was the number one song in the United States at the time of the September 11 attacks for 5 non-consecutive weeks . 
Jennifer Lynn Lopez -LRB- born July 24 , 1969 -RRB- , also known as JLo , is an American singer , actress , dancer , fashion designer , author , and producer . Lopez gained her first high-profile job as a Fly Girl dancer on In Living Color in 1991 , where she remained a regular until she decided to pursue an acting career in 1993 . She received her first leading role in the Selena biopic of the same name in 1997 , a portrayal that earned her a Golden Globe nomination . For her role in Out of Sight the following year , Lopez became the first Latina actress to earn over for a film . She ventured into the music industry in 1999 with her debut studio album On the 6 , preceded by the number-one single `` If You Had My Love '' .   With the simultaneous release of her second studio album J.Lo and her film The Wedding Planner in 2001 , Lopez became the first woman to have a number one album and film in the same week . Her 2002 remix album , J to tha L -- O ! The Remixes , became the first in history to debut at number one on the U.S. Billboard 200 . Following her second divorce , Lopez had a high-profile relationship with Ben Affleck , which strongly influenced her third studio album , This Is Me ... Then -LRB- 2002 -RRB- , while also overshadowing the release of Gigli -LRB- 2003 -RRB- , a critical and commercial failure . She subsequently married longtime friend Marc Anthony , and rebounded with the box office successes Shall We Dance ? -LRB- 2004 -RRB- and Monster-in-Law -LRB- 2005 -RRB- . Her fifth studio album , Como Ama una Mujer -LRB- 2007 -RRB- , received the highest first-week sales for a debut Spanish album in the United States . Lopez gave birth to twins in 2008 , and after a relatively unsuccessful period , returned to prominence in 2011 with her appearance as a judge on American Idol and most commercially successful single to date , `` On the Floor '' , which is one of the best-selling singles of all time . In 2016 , she began starring as Harlee Santos in the crime drama series Shades of Blue .   With a cumulative film gross of over and global record sales exceeding 80 million , she is regarded as the most influential Hispanic performer in the United States , as well as its highest paid Latin entertainer . Time listed her as one of the 25 most influential Hispanic Americans , and in 2012 , Forbes ranked her as the most powerful celebrity in the world , as well as the 38th most powerful woman in the world . For her contributions to the arts , Lopez has received a landmark star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame and the Billboard Icon Award , among other honors . Beyond entertainment , she enjoys a successful business career consisting of various clothing lines , accessories , fragrances , a production company , and a charitable foundation , among other ventures . 