George Wilcken Romney -LRB- July 8 , 1907 -- July 26 , 1995 -RRB- was an American businessman and Republican Party politician . He was chairman and president of American Motors Corporation from 1954 to 1962 , the 43rd Governor of Michigan from 1963 to 1969 , and the United States Secretary of Housing and Urban Development from 1969 to 1973 . He was the father of former Governor of Massachusetts and 2012 Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney and the husband of former Michigan U.S. Senate candidate Lenore Romney .   Romney was born to American parents living in the Mormon colonies in Mexico ; events during the Mexican Revolution forced his family to flee back to the United States when he was a child . The family lived in several states and ended up in Salt Lake City , Utah , where they struggled during the Great Depression . Romney worked in a number of jobs , served as a Mormon missionary in the United Kingdom , and attended several colleges in the U.S. but did not graduate from any of them . In 1939 he moved to Detroit and joined the American Automobile Manufacturers Association , where he served as the chief spokesman for the automobile industry during World War II and headed a cooperative arrangement in which companies could share production improvements . He joined Nash-Kelvinator in 1948 , and became the chief executive of its successor , American Motors Corporation , in 1954 . There he turned around the struggling firm by focusing all efforts on the compact Rambler car . Romney mocked the products of the `` Big Three '' automakers as `` gas-guzzling dinosaurs '' and became one of the first high-profile , media-savvy business executives . Devoutly religious , he presided over the Detroit Stake of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints .   Having entered politics by participating in a state constitutional convention to rewrite the Michigan Constitution during 1961 -- 1962 , Romney was elected Governor of Michigan in 1962 . Re-elected by increasingly large margins in 1964 and 1966 , he worked to overhaul the state 's financial and revenue structure , greatly expanding the size of state government and introducing Michigan 's first state income tax . Romney was a strong supporter of the American Civil Rights Movement . He briefly represented moderate Republicans against conservative Republican Barry Goldwater during the 1964 U.S. presidential election . He requested the intervention of federal troops during the 1967 Detroit riot .   Initially a front runner for the Republican nomination for President of the United States in the 1968 election , he proved an ineffective campaigner and fell behind Richard Nixon in polls . After a mid-1967 remark that his earlier support for the Vietnam War had been due to a `` brainwashing '' by U.S. military and diplomatic officials in Vietnam , his campaign faltered even more and he withdrew from the contest in early 1968 . After Nixon 's election as president , he appointed Romney as Secretary of Housing and Urban Development . Romney 's ambitious plans for housing production increases for the poor , and for open housing to desegregate suburbs , were modestly successful but often thwarted by Nixon . Romney left the administration at the start of Nixon 's second term in 1973 . Returning to private life , he advocated volunteerism and public service , and headed the National Center for Voluntary Action and its successor organizations from 1973 through 1991 . He also served as a regional representative of the Twelve within his church . 
Willard Mitt Romney -LRB- born March 12 , 1947 -RRB- is an American businessman and politician who served as the 70th Governor of Massachusetts from 2003 to 2007 and the Republican Party 's nominee for President of the United States in the 2012 election .   Raised in Bloomfield Hills , Michigan , by his parents George and Lenore Romney , he spent 2 1/2 years in France as a Mormon missionary , starting in 1966 . He married Ann Davies in 1969 , and they have five sons . By 1971 , he had participated in the political campaigns of both parents . He earned a BA at Brigham Young University in 1971 and a joint JD -- MBA at Harvard University in 1975 .   Romney entered the management consulting industry , and in 1977 secured a position at Bain & Company . Later serving as Bain 's chief executive officer -LRB- CEO -RRB- , he helped lead the company out of a financial crisis . In 1984 , he co-founded and led the spin-off company Bain Capital , a highly profitable private equity investment firm that became one of the largest of its kind in the nation . Active in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints -LRB- LDS Church -RRB- , he served during his business career as the bishop of his ward -LRB- head of his local congregation -RRB- and then stake president in his home area near Boston .   After stepping down from Bain Capital and his local leadership role in the LDS Church , Romney ran as the Republican candidate in the 1994 Massachusetts election for U.S. Senate . Upon losing to longtime incumbent Ted Kennedy , he resumed his position at Bain Capital . Years later , a successful stint as President and CEO of the Salt Lake Organizing Committee for the 2002 Winter Olympics led to a relaunch of his political career .   Elected Governor of Massachusetts in 2002 , Romney helped develop and enact into law the Massachusetts health care reform legislation , the first of its kind in the nation , which provided near-universal health insurance access through state-level subsidies and individual mandates to purchase insurance . He also presided over the elimination of a projected $ 1.2 -- 1.5 billion deficit through a combination of spending cuts , increased fees , and the closure of corporate tax loopholes . He did not seek re-election in 2006 , instead focusing on his campaign for the Republican nomination in the 2008 U.S. presidential election . He won several primaries and caucuses ; however , he lost to the eventual nominee , Senator John McCain . His considerable net worth , estimated in 2012 at $ 190 -- 250 million , helped finance his political campaigns prior to 2012 .   Following his term as Governor of Massachusetts in 2007 , Romney was the Republican Party 's nominee for President of the United States in the 2012 election . He won the 2012 Republican presidential nomination , becoming the first Mormon to be a major party presidential nominee . He was defeated by incumbent Democratic President Barack Obama in the November 2012 general election , losing by 332 -- 206 electoral college votes . The popular vote margin was 51 -- 47 percent in Obama 's favor . Following the election , he initially kept a low profile , and later became more visible politically . 