Diane Ruggiero-Wright -LSB- ˈruːʒɪəroʊ -RSB- is an American television writer and producer . Her credits include That 's Life , Veronica Mars , Free Agents , Dirty Sexy Money , Big Shots , the Mythological X remake The Ex List and iZombie , which she co-created with Rob Thomas . With Thomas , she also co-wrote the script for the Veronica Mars film .   Ruggiero is a native of Old Bridge Township , New Jersey . While she was living in North Arlington , New Jersey , Ruggiero 's writing talent was discovered by Mark St. Germain while she worked as a waitress at the Park and Orchard restaurant in East Rutherford , New Jersey . She is close friends with Jed Seidel and Rob Thomas . 
New Jersey is a state in the Northeastern and mid-Atlantic regions of the United States . It is bordered on the north and east by New York , on the southeast and south by the Atlantic Ocean , on the west by Pennsylvania , and on the southwest by Delaware . New Jersey is the fourth-smallest state but the 11th-most populous and the most densely populated of the 50 United States . New Jersey lies entirely within the combined statistical areas of New York City and Philadelphia and is the second-wealthiest U.S. state by per capita income as of 2014 .   New Jersey was inhabited by Native Americans for more than 2,800 years , with historical tribes such as the Lenape along the coast . In the early 17th century , the Dutch and the Swedes made the first European settlements . The English later seized control of the region , naming it the Province of New Jersey after the largest of the Channel Islands , Jersey , and granting it as a colony to Sir George Carteret and John Berkeley , 1st Baron Berkeley of Stratton . New Jersey was the site of several decisive battles during the American Revolutionary War in the 18th century .   In the 19th century , factories in cities such as Camden , Paterson , Newark , Trenton , and Elizabeth helped to drive the Industrial Revolution . New Jersey 's geographic location at the center of the Northeast megalopolis , between Boston and New York City to the northeast , and Philadelphia , Baltimore , and Washington , D.C. , to the southwest , fueled its rapid growth through the process of suburbanization in the second half of the 20th century . In the first decades of the 21st century , this suburbanization began reverting to consolidation of New Jersey 's culturally diverse populace toward more urban settings within the state , with towns home to commuter rail stations outpacing the population growth of more automobile-oriented suburbs since 2008 . 