Adam Richard Sandler -LRB- born September 9 , 1966 -RRB- is an American actor , comedian , screenwriter , film producer , and musician . After becoming a Saturday Night Live cast member , Sandler went on to star in many Hollywood feature films that combined have grossed over $ 2 billion at the box office . He is best known for his comedic roles , such as in the films Billy Madison -LRB- 1995 -RRB- , the sports comedies Happy Gilmore -LRB- 1996 -RRB- and The Waterboy -LRB- 1998 -RRB- , the romantic comedy The Wedding Singer -LRB- 1998 -RRB- , Big Daddy -LRB- 1999 -RRB- , and Mr. Deeds -LRB- 2002 -RRB- , and voicing Dracula in Hotel Transylvania -LRB- 2012 -RRB- and Hotel Transylvania 2 -LRB- 2015 -RRB- . Several of his movies , most notably the widely panned Jack and Jill , have gained harsh criticism , culminating in a shared second place in the number of Raspberry Awards -LRB- 3 -RRB- and Raspberry Award Nominations -LRB- 11 -RRB- , in both cases second only to Sylvester Stallone . He has ventured into more dramatic territory with his roles in Punch-Drunk Love -LRB- 2002 -RRB- , Spanglish -LRB- 2004 -RRB- , Reign Over Me -LRB- 2007 -RRB- , Funny People -LRB- 2009 -RRB- and The Meyerowitz Stories -LRB- 2017 -RRB- .   Sandler has released five comedy albums in his career . They 're All Gon na Laugh at You ! -LRB- 1993 -RRB- and What the Hell Happened to Me ? -LRB- 1996 -RRB- are both certified double-platinum . In 1999 , Sandler founded Happy Madison Productions . 
Happy Madison Productions is an American film and television production company founded in 1996 by Adam Sandler which is best known for its comedy films . Happy Madison takes its name from the films Happy Gilmore and Billy Madison , two box office successes starring Sandler himself , both produced by Robert Simonds . The elderly man depicted in the logo is Sandler 's late father , Stanley .   In addition to various Sandler-produced films , the company has also released films produced by others , such as Steven Brill -LRB- Little Nicky , Mr. Deeds -RRB- , Dennis Dugan -LRB- The Benchwarmers , I Now Pronounce You Chuck and Larry , You Do n't Mess with the Zohan , Grown Ups , Grown Ups 2 -RRB- , Frank Coraci -LRB- Click , Zookeeper , Blended -RRB- , Fred Wolf -LRB- Strange Wilderness , The House Bunny -RRB- , Tom Brady -LRB- The Animal , The Hot Chick , Bucky Larson : Born to Be a Star -RRB- , Peter Segal -LRB- Anger Management , 50 First Dates , The Longest Yard -RRB- , and Nicholaus Goossen -LRB- A Day with the Meatball , Grandma 's Boy , The Shortcut -RRB- .   The 1998 films The Waterboy and The Wedding Singer helped jump start Sandler 's movie career and production company . He produced The Waterboy and co-wrote the script with Tim Herlihy . The film was extremely profitable , earning over $ 160 million in the United States alone and made Sandler a successful actor with The Waterboy becoming his second $ 100 million film in a year , along with The Wedding Singer .   The company 's production office is located in the Judy Garland Building on the Sony Pictures Studios lot in Culver City , California while its corporate and parent company offices -LRB- Happy Madison , Inc. -RRB- are located in Manchester , New Hampshire run by Adam 's brother Scott .   The company used to have a subsidiary , Madison 23 Productions , which was aimed towards the drama genre . The only production under Madison 23 was Reign Over Me , starring Adam Sandler and Don Cheadle . This studio company on the trailer of Funny People and the poster and trailer for Reign Over Me is also known as `` Mr. Madison Productions '' . However , after the financial failure of Reign Over Me , the `` Madison 23 '' label was shut down .   Happy Madison 's most recent releases are The Ridiculous 6 and The Do Over . 