The Federal Republic of Nigeria -LSB- naɪˈdʒɪəriə -RSB- , commonly referred to as Nigeria , is a federal republic in West Africa , bordering Benin in the west , Chad and Cameroon in the east , and Niger in the north . Its coast in the south lies on the Gulf of Guinea in the Atlantic Ocean . It comprises 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory , where the capital , Abuja is located . Nigeria is officially a democratic secular country .   Modern-day Nigeria has been the site of numerous kingdoms and tribal states over the millennia . The modern state originated from British colonial rule beginning in the 19th century , and the merging of the Southern Nigeria Protectorate and Northern Nigeria Protectorate in 1914 . The British set up administrative and legal structures whilst practising indirect rule through traditional chiefdoms . Nigeria became a formally independent federation in 1960 , and plunged into a civil war from 1967 to 1970 . It has since alternated between democratically elected civilian governments and military dictatorships , until it achieved a stable democracy in 1999 , with the 2011 presidential elections considered the first to be reasonably free and fair .   Nigeria is often referred to as the `` Giant of Africa '' , owing to its large population and economy . With approximately 184 million inhabitants , Nigeria is the most populous country in Africa and the seventh most populous country in the world . Nigeria has one of the largest populations of youth in the world . The country is viewed as a multinational state , as it is inhabited by over 500 ethnic groups , of which the three largest are the Hausa , Igbo and Yoruba ; these ethnic groups speak over 500 different languages , and are identified with wide variety of cultures . The official language is English . Nigeria is divided roughly in half between Christians , who live mostly in the southern part of the country , and Muslims in the northern part . A minority of the population practise religions indigenous to Nigeria , such as those native to the Igbo and Yoruba ethnicities .   , Nigeria is the world 's 20th largest economy , worth more than $ 500 billion and $ 1 trillion in terms of nominal GDP and purchasing power parity respectively . It overtook South Africa to become Africa 's largest economy in 2014 . The 2013 debt-to-GDP ratio was 11 percent . Nigeria is considered to be an emerging market by the World Bank ; it has been identified as a regional power on the African continent , a middle power in international affairs , and has also been identified as an emerging global power . Nigeria is a member of the MINT group of countries , which are widely seen as the globe 's next `` BRIC-like '' economies . It is also listed among the `` Next Eleven '' economies set to become among the biggest in the world . Nigeria is a founding member of the African Union and a member of many other international organizations , including the United Nations , the Commonwealth of Nations and OPEC . 
The Next Eleven -LRB- known also by the numeronym N-11 -RRB- are the eleven countries -- Bangladesh , Egypt , Indonesia , Iran , Mexico , Nigeria , Pakistan , the Philippines , Turkey , South Korea and Vietnam -- identified by Goldman Sachs investment bank and economist Jim O'Neill in a research paper as having a high potential of becoming , along with the BRICS countries , among the world 's largest economies in the 21st century . The bank chose these states , all with promising outlooks for investment and future growth , on December 12 , 2005 . At the end of 2011 , the four most prominent countries in the Next Eleven , Mexico , Indonesia , Nigeria and Turkey -LRB- commonly referret to as MINT -RRB- , made up 73 percent of all Next Eleven GDP . BRIC GDP was $ 13.5 trillion , MINT GDP comprising almost 30 percent of that : $ 3.9 trillion .   The criteria that Goldman Sachs used were macroeconomic stability , political maturity , openness of trade and investment policies , and the quality of education . The N-11 paper is a follow-up to the bank 's 2003 paper on the four emerging `` BRIC '' economies , Brazil , Russia , India , and China . It can be compared with the CIVETS list coined by Robert Ward , global forecasting director for the Economist Intelligence Unit -LRB- EIU -RRB- -- having a few differences , but many similarities . 