Conquest of the Planet of the Apes is a 1972 science fiction film directed by J. Lee Thompson and written by Paul Dehn . It is the fourth of five films in the original Planet of the Apes series produced by Arthur P. Jacobs . The film stars Roddy McDowall , Don Murray and Ricardo Montalbán . It explores how the apes rebelled from humanity 's ill treatment following Escape from the Planet of the Apes -LRB- 1971 -RRB- . It was followed by Battle for the Planet of the Apes -LRB- 1973 -RRB- .   The series reboot Rise of the Planet of the Apes -LRB- 2011 -RRB- has a similar premise to Conquest , but is not officially a remake . 
Science fiction film -LRB- or sci-fi -RRB- is a genre that uses speculative , fictional science-based depictions of phenomena that are not fully accepted by mainstream science , such as extraterrestrial lifeforms , alien worlds , extrasensory perception and time travel , along with futuristic elements such as spacecraft , robots , cyborgs , interstellar travel or other technologies . Science fiction films have often been used to focus on political or social issues , and to explore philosophical issues like the human condition . In many cases , tropes derived from written science fiction may be used by filmmakers ignorant of or at best indifferent to the standards of scientific plausibility and plot logic to which written science fiction is traditionally held .   The genre has existed since the early years of silent cinema , when Georges Melies ' A Trip to the Moon -LRB- 1902 -RRB- employed trick photography effects . The next major example in the genre was the film Metropolis -LRB- 1927 -RRB- - being the first feature length science fiction movie . From the 1930s to the 1950s , the genre consisted mainly of low-budget B movies . After Stanley Kubrick 's landmark 2001 : A Space Odyssey -LRB- 1968 -RRB- , the science fiction film genre was taken more seriously . In the late 1970s , big-budget science fiction films filled with special effects became popular with audiences after the success of Star Wars and paved the way for the blockbuster hits of subsequent decades . 