Selene , portrayed by British actress Kate Beckinsale , is a fictional character and the main protagonist of the Underworld film series . More specifically , she serves as the central character in the films Underworld -LRB- 2003 -RRB- , Underworld : Evolution -LRB- 2006 -RRB- , Underworld : Awakening -LRB- 2012 -RRB- , and Underworld : Blood Wars -LRB- 2016 -RRB- .   Beckinsale 's daughter , Lily Mo Sheen , plays the character as a child in a flashback in Underworld : Evolution . In Underworld : Endless War , Selene is voiced by Canadian voice actress Laura Harris . 
Underworld is a 2003 action horror film directed by Len Wiseman and written by Danny McBride , based on a story by McBride , Kevin Grevioux , and Wiseman . The film centers on the secret history of vampires and lycans -LRB- an abbreviated form of lycanthrope , which means werewolf -RRB- . It is the first installment in the Underworld franchise . The main plot revolves around Selene -LRB- Kate Beckinsale -RRB- , a vampire Death Dealer hunting Lycans . She finds herself attracted to a human , Michael Corvin -LRB- Scott Speedman -RRB- , who is being targeted by the Lycans . After Michael is bitten by a Lycan , Selene must decide whether to do her duty and kill him or go against her clan and save him . Alongside Beckinsale and Speedman , the film stars Michael Sheen , Shane Brolly , and Bill Nighy .   An international co-production between companies from the United Kingdom , Germany , Hungary , and the United States , the film was released on September 19 , 2003 . Upon its release , the film received generally negative reviews from critics , but a smaller number of reviewers praised elements such as the film 's stylish Gothic visuals , the `` icy English composure '' in Kate Beckinsale 's performance , and the extensively worked-out vampire -- werewolf mythology that serves as the film 's backstory . A surprise hit , the film grossed $ 95 million against a production budget of $ 22 million . The film was followed by Underworld : Evolution , released three years later , and by three other films . 