Valkyrie is a 2008 American-German historical thriller film set in Nazi Germany during World War II . The film depicts the 20 July plot in 1944 by German army officers to assassinate Adolf Hitler and to use the Operation Valkyrie national emergency plan to take control of the country . Valkyrie was directed by Bryan Singer for the American studio United Artists , and the film stars Tom Cruise as Colonel Claus von Stauffenberg , one of the key plotters . The cast included Kenneth Branagh , Bill Nighy , Eddie Izzard , Terence Stamp and Tom Wilkinson .   Cruise 's casting caused controversy among German politicians and members of the von Stauffenberg family due to the actor 's practice of Scientology , which is viewed with suspicion in Germany . Because of this , the filmmakers initially had difficulty setting up filming locations in Germany , but they were later given access to film in locations , including Berlin 's historic Bendlerblock . German newspapers and filmmakers supported the film and its attempt to spread global awareness of von Stauffenberg 's plot .   The film changed release dates several times , from as early as June 27 , 2008 , to as late as February 14 , 2009 . The changing calendar and poor response to United Artists ' initial marketing campaign drew criticism about the studio 's viability . After a positive test screening , Valkyries release in North America was ultimately changed to December 25 , 2008 . United Artists renewed its marketing campaign to reduce its focus on Cruise and to highlight Singer 's credentials . The film received mixed reviews in the United States and in Germany , where it opened commercially on January 22 , 2009 . 
World War II -LRB- often abbreviated to WWII or WW2 -RRB- , also known as the Second World War , was a global war that lasted from 1939 to 1945 , although related conflicts began earlier . It involved the vast majority of the world 's countries -- including all of the great powers -- eventually forming two opposing military alliances : the Allies and the Axis . It was the most widespread war in history , and directly involved more than 100 million people from over 30 countries . In a state of `` total war '' , the major participants threw their entire economic , industrial , and scientific capabilities behind the war effort , erasing the distinction between civilian and military resources . Marked by mass deaths of civilians , including the Holocaust -LRB- in which approximately 11 million people were killed -RRB- and the strategic bombing of industrial and population centres -LRB- in which approximately one million were killed , and which included the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki -RRB- , it resulted in an estimated 50 million to 85 million fatalities . These made World War II the deadliest conflict in human history .   The Empire of Japan aimed to dominate Asia and the Pacific and was already at war with the Republic of China in 1937 , but the world war is generally said to have begun on 1 September 1939 with the invasion of Poland by Nazi Germany and subsequent declarations of war on Germany by France and the United Kingdom . Supplied by the Soviet Union , from late 1939 to early 1941 , in a series of campaigns and treaties , Germany conquered or controlled much of continental Europe , and formed the Axis alliance with Italy and Japan . Under the Molotov -- Ribbentrop Pact of August 1939 , Germany and the Soviet Union partitioned and annexed territories of their European neighbours , Poland , Finland , Romania and the Baltic states . The war continued primarily between the European Axis powers and the coalition of the United Kingdom and the British Commonwealth , with campaigns including the North Africa and East Africa campaigns , the aerial Battle of Britain , the Blitz bombing campaign , the Balkan Campaign as well as the long-running Battle of the Atlantic . On 22 June 1941 , the European Axis powers launched an invasion of the Soviet Union , opening the largest land theatre of war in history , which trapped the major part of the Axis ' military forces into a war of attrition . In December 1941 , Japan attacked the United States and European colonies in the Pacific Ocean , and quickly conquered much of the Western Pacific .   The Axis advance halted in 1942 when Japan lost the critical Battle of Midway , near Hawaii , and Germany was defeated in North Africa and then , decisively , at Stalingrad in the Soviet Union . In 1943 , with a series of German defeats on the Eastern Front , the Allied invasion of Sicily and the Allied invasion of Italy which brought about Italian surrender , and Allied victories in the Pacific , the Axis lost the initiative and undertook strategic retreat on all fronts . In 1944 , the Western Allies invaded German-occupied France , while the Soviet Union regained all of its territorial losses and invaded Germany and its allies . During 1944 and 1945 the Japanese suffered major reverses in mainland Asia in South Central China and Burma , while the Allies crippled the Japanese Navy and captured key Western Pacific islands .   The war in Europe concluded with an invasion of Germany by the Western Allies and the Soviet Union , culminating in the capture of Berlin by Soviet troops and the subsequent German unconditional surrender on 8 May 1945 . Following the Potsdam Declaration by the Allies on 26 July 1945 and the refusal of Japan to surrender under its terms , the United States dropped atomic bombs on the Japanese cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki on 6 August and 9 August respectively . With an invasion of the Japanese archipelago imminent , the possibility of additional atomic bombings , and the Soviet Union 's declaration of war on Japan and invasion of Manchuria , Japan surrendered on 15 August 1945 . Thus ended the war in Asia , cementing the total victory of the Allies .   World War II altered the political alignment and social structure of the world . The United Nations -LRB- UN -RRB- was established to foster international co-operation and prevent future conflicts . The victorious great powers -- the United States , the Soviet Union , China , the United Kingdom , and France -- became the permanent members of the United Nations Security Council . The Soviet Union and the United States emerged as rival superpowers , setting the stage for the Cold War , which lasted for the next 46 years . Meanwhile , the influence of European great powers waned , while the decolonisation of Asia and Africa began . Most countries whose industries had been damaged moved towards economic recovery . Political integration , especially in Europe , emerged as an effort to end pre-war enmities and to create a common identity . 