The Academy Honorary Award -- instituted in 1948 for the 21st Academy Awards -LRB- previously called the Special Award , which was first presented in early 1929 -RRB- -- is given annually by the Board of Governors of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences -LRB- AMPAS -RRB- to celebrate motion picture achievements that are not covered by existing Academy Awards , although prior winners of competitive Academy Awards are not excluded from receiving the Honorary Award . Unless otherwise specified , Honorary Award recipients receive the same gold Oscar statuettes received by winners of the competitive Academy Awards . Unlike the Special Achievement Award instituted in 1972 -LRB- and discontinued in 1995 -RRB- , those on whom the Academy confers its Honorary Award do not have to meet `` the Academy 's eligibility year and deadline requirements . '' Like the Special Achievement Award , the Special Award and Honorary Award have been used to reward significant achievements of the year that did not fit in existing categories , subsequently leading the Academy to establish several new categories , and to honor exceptional career achievements , contributions to the motion picture industry , and service to the Academy . The Academy Honorary Award is often awarded in preference to those with noted achievements in motion pictures who have nevertheless never won an Academy Award . Thus , many of its recipients are Classic Hollywood stars , such as Lillian Gish , Barbara Stanwyck , Kirk Douglas , and Lauren Bacall .   Since 2009 the Honorary Award is presented at the annual Governors Awards rather than at the Academy Awards . 
The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences -LRB- AMPAS , also known as simply the Academy -RRB- is a professional honorary organization with the stated goal of advancing the arts and sciences of motion pictures . The Academy 's corporate management and general policies are overseen by a Board of Governors , which includes representatives from each of the craft branches .   The roster of the Academy 's approximately 6,000 motion picture professionals is a `` closely guarded secret '' . While the great majority of its members are based in the United States , membership is open to qualified filmmakers around the world .   The Academy is known around the world for its annual Academy Awards , now officially known as The `` Oscars '' .   In addition , the Academy holds the Governors Awards annually for lifetime achievement in film ; presents Scientific and Technical Awards annually ; gives Student Academy Awards annually to filmmakers at the undergraduate and graduate level ; awards up to five Nicholl Fellowships in Screenwriting annually ; and operates the Margaret Herrick Library -LRB- at the Fairbanks Center for Motion Picture Study -RRB- in Beverly Hills , California , and the Pickford Center for Motion Picture Study in Hollywood , Los Angeles . The Academy plans to open the Academy Museum of Motion Pictures in Los Angeles in 2017 . 