Billy Bob Thornton -LRB- born August 4 , 1955 -RRB- is an American actor , filmmaker , singer , songwriter , and musician .   Thornton had his first break when he co-wrote and starred in the 1992 thriller One False Move , and came to international attention after writing , directing , and starring in the independent drama film Sling Blade -LRB- 1996 -RRB- , for which he won an Academy Award for Best Adapted Screenplay and was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Actor . He appeared in several major film roles in the 1990s following Sling Blade , including Oliver Stone 's neo-noir U Turn -LRB- 1997 -RRB- , political drama Primary Colors -LRB- 1998 -RRB- , science fiction disaster film Armageddon -LRB- 1998 -RRB- , which was the highest-grossing film of that year , and the crime drama A Simple Plan -LRB- 1998 -RRB- , which earned him his third Academy Awards nomination .   In the 2000s , Thornton achieved further success in starring dramas Monster 's Ball -LRB- 2001 -RRB- , The Man Who Was n't There -LRB- 2001 -RRB- , and Friday Night Lights -LRB- 2004 -RRB- ; comedies Bandits -LRB- 2001 -RRB- , Intolerable Cruelty -LRB- 2003 -RRB- , and Bad Santa -LRB- 2003 -RRB- ; and action films Eagle Eye -LRB- 2008 -RRB- and Faster -LRB- 2010 -RRB- . In 2014 , Thornton starred as Lorne Malvo in the first season of the anthology series Fargo , earning a nomination for the Outstanding Lead Actor in a Miniseries or TV Movie at the Emmy Awards and won Best Actor in a Miniseries or TV Film at the 72nd Golden Globe Awards . In 2016 , he starred in an Amazon original series , Goliath about a washed up attorney with a great new case .   Thornton has been vocal about his disrespect for celebrity culture , choosing to keep his life out of the public eye . However , the attention of the media has proven unavoidable in certain cases , his marriage to Angelina Jolie being a notable example . Thornton has appeared in at least one film per year nearly every year since 1991 . Thornton has written a variety of films , usually set in the Southern United States and mainly co-written with Tom Epperson , including A Family Thing -LRB- 1996 -RRB- and The Gift -LRB- 2000 -RRB- . After Sling Blade , he directed several other films , including Daddy and Them -LRB- 2001 -RRB- , All the Pretty Horses -LRB- 2000 -RRB- , and Jayne Mansfield 's Car -LRB- 2012 -RRB- .   Thornton has received the President 's Award from the Academy of Science Fiction , Fantasy & Horror Films , a Special Achievement Award from the National Board of Review , and a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame . He has also been nominated for an Emmy Award , four Golden Globes , and three Screen Actors Guild Awards . In addition to film work , Thornton began a career as a singer-songwriter . He has released four solo albums and is the vocalist of the blues rock band The Boxmasters . 
A Simple Plan is a 1998 American neo-noir crime thriller film adapted by Scott B. Smith from his 1993 novel of the same name . Directed by Sam Raimi , the film stars Bill Paxton , Billy Bob Thornton and Bridget Fonda . Set in rural Minnesota , the story follows Hank Mitchell -LRB- Paxton -RRB- and his brother Jacob -LRB- Thornton -RRB- , who , along with Jacob 's friend Lou -LRB- Brent Briscoe -RRB- , discover a crashed plane containing $ 4.4 million in cash . The three men go to great lengths to keep the money a secret but begin to doubt each other 's trust , resulting in lies , deceit and murder .   Development of the film began in 1993 before the novel was published . Mike Nichols purchased the film rights , and the project was picked up by an independent film studio , Savoy Pictures . After Nichols stepped down , the film adaptation became mired in development hell ; during the troubled pre-production , Ben Stiller and John Dahl turned down opportunities to direct the film . After Savoy closed in November 1995 , the project was sold to Paramount Pictures . John Boorman was hired to direct , but scheduling conflicts led to his replacement by Raimi . Principal photography began in January 1998 and concluded in March after 55 days ; filming took place in Wisconsin and Minnesota . The score was produced and composed by Danny Elfman .   A Simple Plan premiered at the 1998 Toronto International Film Festival , where it was met with critical acclaim . The film 's appearance at the festival preceded a limited release in the United States on December 11 , 1998 , followed by a general release in North America on January 22 , 1999 . It underperformed at the North American box office , grossing $ 16.3 million on a $ 17 million production budget . Reviewers praised various aspects of the film 's production , including the storytelling , performances and Raimi 's direction . A Simple Plan earned multiple awards and nominations , among them two Academy Award nominations for Best Supporting Actor -LRB- Thornton -RRB- and Best Adapted Screenplay -LRB- Smith -RRB- . 
Primary Colors is a 1998 film based on the novel Primary Colors : A Novel of Politics , a roman à clef about Bill Clinton 's first presidential campaign in 1992 , which was originally published anonymously , but in 1996 was revealed to have been written by journalist Joe Klein , who had been covering Clinton 's campaign for Newsweek . The film was directed by Mike Nichols and scripted by Elaine May ; it starred John Travolta , Emma Thompson , Billy Bob Thornton , Kathy Bates , Maura Tierney , Larry Hagman , and Adrian Lester .   Bates was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance , and May was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Adapted Screenplay . 
U Turn is a 1997 modern western neo-noir crime thriller film directed by Oliver Stone , and based on the book Stray Dogs by John Ridley . It stars Sean Penn , Billy Bob Thornton , Jennifer Lopez , Jon Voight , Powers Boothe , Joaquin Phoenix , Claire Danes , and Nick Nolte . 