Dopamine -LRB- DA , contracted from 3,4-dihydroxyphenethylamine -RRB- is an organic chemical of the catecholamine and phenethylamine families that plays several important roles in the brain and body . It is an amine synthesized by removing a carboxyl group from a molecule of its precursor chemical L-DOPA , which is synthesized in the brain and kidneys . Dopamine is also synthesized in plants and most animals .   In the brain , dopamine functions as a neurotransmitter -- a chemical released by neurons -LRB- nerve cells -RRB- to send signals to other nerve cells . The brain includes several distinct dopamine pathways , one of which plays a major role in reward-motivated behavior . Most types of rewards increase the level of dopamine in the brain , and many addictive drugs increase dopamine neuronal activity . Other brain dopamine pathways are involved in motor control and in controlling the release of various hormones . These pathways and cell groups form a dopamine system which is neuromodulatory .   Outside the central nervous system , dopamine functions primarily as a local chemical messenger . In blood vessels , it inhibits norepinephrine release and acts as a vasodilator -LRB- at normal concentrations -RRB- ; in the kidneys , it increases sodium excretion and urine output ; in the pancreas , it reduces insulin production ; in the digestive system , it reduces gastrointestinal motility and protects intestinal mucosa ; and in the immune system , it reduces the activity of lymphocytes . With the exception of the blood vessels , dopamine in each of these peripheral systems is synthesized locally and exerts its effects near the cells that release it .   Several important diseases of the nervous system are associated with dysfunctions of the dopamine system , and some of the key medications used to treat them work by altering the effects of dopamine . Parkinson 's disease , a degenerative condition causing tremor and motor impairment , is caused by a loss of dopamine-secreting neurons in an area of the midbrain called the substantia nigra . Its metabolic precursor L-DOPA can be manufactured , and in its pure form marketed as Levodopa is the most widely used treatment for the condition . There is evidence that schizophrenia involves altered levels of dopamine activity , and most antipsychotic drugs used to treat this are dopamine antagonists which reduce dopamine activity . Similar dopamine antagonist drugs are also some of the most effective anti-nausea agents . Restless legs syndrome and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder -LRB- ADHD -RRB- are associated with decreased dopamine activity . Dopaminergic stimulants can be addictive in high doses , but some are used at lower doses to treat ADHD . Dopamine itself is available as a manufactured medication for intravenous injection : although it can not reach the brain from the bloodstream , its peripheral effects make it useful in the treatment of heart failure or shock , especially in newborn babies . 
The brain is an organ that serves as the center of the nervous system in all vertebrate and most invertebrate animals . The brain is located in the head , usually close to the sensory organs for senses such as vision . The brain is the most complex organ in a vertebrate 's body . In a human , the cerebral cortex contains approximately 15 -- 33 billion neurons , each connected by synapses to several thousand other neurons . These neurons communicate with one another by means of long protoplasmic fibers called axons , which carry trains of signal pulses called action potentials to distant parts of the brain or body targeting specific recipient cells .   Physiologically , the function of the brain is to exert centralized control over the other organs of the body . The brain acts on the rest of the body both by generating patterns of muscle activity and by driving the secretion of chemicals called hormones . This centralized control allows rapid and coordinated responses to changes in the environment . Some basic types of responsiveness such as reflexes can be mediated by the spinal cord or peripheral ganglia , but sophisticated purposeful control of behavior based on complex sensory input requires the information integrating capabilities of a centralized brain .   The operations of individual brain cells are now understood in considerable detail but the way they cooperate in ensembles of millions is yet to be solved . Recent models in modern neuroscience treat the brain as a biological computer , very different in mechanism from an electronic computer , but similar in the sense that it acquires information from the surrounding world , stores it , and processes it in a variety of ways .   This article compares the properties of brains across the entire range of animal species , with the greatest attention to vertebrates . It deals with the human brain insofar as it shares the properties of other brains . The ways in which the human brain differs from other brains are covered in the human brain article . Several topics that might be covered here are instead covered there because much more can be said about them in a human context . The most important is brain disease and the effects of brain damage , that are covered in the human brain article . 