Ryan Thomas Gosling -LRB- born November 12 , 1980 -RRB- is a Canadian actor and musician . He began his career as a child star on the Disney Channel 's Mickey Mouse Club -LRB- 1993 -- 95 -RRB- and went on to appear in other family entertainment programs including Are You Afraid of the Dark ? -LRB- 1995 -RRB- and Goosebumps -LRB- 1996 -RRB- . His first starring film role was as a Jewish neo-Nazi in The Believer -LRB- 2001 -RRB- , and he went on to star in several independent films , including Murder by Numbers -LRB- 2002 -RRB- , The Slaughter Rule -LRB- 2002 -RRB- , and The United States of Leland -LRB- 2003 -RRB- .   Gosling came to the attention of a wider audience in 2004 with a leading role in the commercially successful romantic drama The Notebook . His performance as a drug-addicted teacher in Half Nelson -LRB- 2006 -RRB- was nominated for an Academy Award and his performance as a socially inept loner in Lars and the Real Girl -LRB- 2007 -RRB- was nominated for a Golden Globe Award . After a three-year acting hiatus , Gosling starred in the marital drama Blue Valentine -LRB- 2010 -RRB- , earning him a second Golden Globe nomination . Gosling co-starred in three mainstream films in 2011the romantic comedy-drama Crazy , Stupid , Love , the political drama The Ides of March , and the action thriller Driveand received two more Golden Globe nominations . Gosling 's directorial debut Lost River was released in 2014 to poor reviews . Greater success came to Gosling when he starred in two critically acclaimed filmsthe financial comedy-drama The Big Short -LRB- 2015 -RRB- and the musical La La Land -LRB- 2016 -RRB- . For the latter , he won a Golden Globe Award and received a second Oscar nomination .   Gosling 's band , Dead Man 's Bones , released their self-titled debut album and toured North America in 2009 . He is a co-owner of Tagine , a Moroccan restaurant in Beverly Hills , California . He is a supporter of PETA , Invisible Children and the Enough Project and has traveled to Chad , Uganda and eastern Congo to raise awareness about conflicts in the regions . 
Chad -LRB- -LSB- tʃæd -RSB- تشاد ; Tchad -LSB- tʃa -LRB- d -RRB- -RSB- -RRB- , officially the Republic of Chad -LRB- ; `` Republic of the Chad '' -RRB- , is a landlocked country in Central Africa . It is bordered by Libya to the north , Sudan to the east , the Central African Republic to the south , Cameroon and Nigeria to the southwest and Niger to the west . It is the fifth largest country in Africa in terms of area .   Chad has several regions : a desert zone in the north , an arid Sahelian belt in the centre and a more fertile Sudanian Savanna zone in the south . Lake Chad , after which the country is named , is the largest wetland in Chad and the second-largest in Africa . The capital N'Djamena is the largest city .   Chad 's official languages are Arabic and French . Chad is home to over 200 different ethnic and linguistic groups . The religions of Chad are Islam -LRB- at 55 % -RRB- , followed by Christianity -LRB- at 40 % -RRB- .   Beginning in the 7th millennium BC , human populations moved into the Chadian basin in great numbers . By the end of the 1st millennium BC , a series of states and empires had risen and fallen in Chad 's Sahelian strip , each focused on controlling the trans-Saharan trade routes that passed through the region . France conquered the territory by 1920 and incorporated it as part of French Equatorial Africa . In 1960 , Chad obtained independence under the leadership of François Tombalbaye . Resentment towards his policies in the Muslim north culminated in the eruption of a long-lasting civil war in 1965 . In 1979 the rebels conquered the capital and put an end to the south 's hegemony . However , the rebel commanders fought amongst themselves until Hissène Habré defeated his rivals . He was overthrown in 1990 by his general Idriss Déby . Since 2003 the Darfur crisis in Sudan has spilt over the border and destabilised the nation , with hundreds of thousands of Sudanese refugees living in and around camps in eastern Chad . Unsustainable high birth rates and a lack of agriculture let the country persist in poverty .   While many political parties are active , power lies firmly in the hands of President Déby and his political party , the Patriotic Salvation Movement . Chad remains plagued by political violence and recurrent attempted coups d'état . Chad is one of the poorest and most corrupt countries in the world ; most inhabitants live in poverty as subsistence herders and farmers . Since 2003 crude oil has become the country 's primary source of export earnings , superseding the traditional cotton industry . 