Kmart Corporation -LRB- sometimes stylized as K-Mart -RRB- is a chain of big box department stores headquartered in Hoffman Estates , Illinois , United States . The chain purchased Sears for $ 11 billion in 2005 , forming a new corporation under the name Sears Holdings Corporation . The Kmart name was incorporated in 1916 while the first store did n't open its doors until 1962 . At its peak in 2000 , Kmart operated 2,171 stores including 105 `` Super Center '' locations . For the 2005 fiscal year under the new company , the Kmart store count was at 1,416 with only 55 `` Super Center '' locations . Currently , the chain is operating 734 stores with only 1 `` Super Center '' location remaining -LRB- Store # 4939 in Warren , OH -RRB- . This number will decrease further due to the previously announced closings that will take place in Q1 2017 .   It operates stores in 49 states , Puerto Rico , the U.S. Virgin Islands , and Guam -LRB- which houses the world 's largest Kmart -RRB- . It also used to operate stores in Canada , Mexico , and Eastern Europe .   Kmart became known for its `` Blue Light Specials '' : they occurred at surprise moments when a store worker would light up a mobile police light and offer a discount in a specific department of the store , while announcing the discounted special over the store 's public address system . At the height of Kmart 's popularity , the phrase `` Attention Kmart shoppers ! '' entered into the American pop psyche , appearing in films and other media such as Troop Beverly Hills , Six Days Seven Nights , Rain Man , Beetlejuice , Madea Goes to Jail , and Dawn of the Dead .   Kmart 's world headquarters were located in Troy , Michigan , in Metro Detroit , but since the purchase of Sears , it has been relocated to Hoffman Estates , Illinois , a suburb of Chicago . Kmart also exists in Australia and New Zealand -LRB- see Kmart Australia -RRB- , although it now has no relation to the American stores except in name , after U.S. equity in the Australian business was purchased in the late 1970s . 
Puerto Rico -LRB- Spanish for `` Rich Port '' -RRB- , officially the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico -LRB- Estado Libre Asociado de Puerto Rico , `` Free Associated State of Puerto Rico '' -RRB- and briefly called Porto Rico , is an unincorporated territory of the United States located in the northeast Caribbean Sea .   It is an archipelago that includes the main island of Puerto Rico and a number of smaller ones such as Mona , Culebra , and Vieques . The capital and most populous city is San Juan . Its official languages are Spanish and English , though Spanish predominates . The island 's population is approximately 3.4 million . Puerto Rico 's rich history , tropical climate , diverse natural scenery , traditional cuisine , and attractive tax incentives make it a popular destination for travelers from around the world .   Originally populated by the indigenous Taíno people , the island was claimed in 1493 by Christopher Columbus for the Crown of Castile , and it later endured invasion attempts from the French , Dutch , and British . Four centuries of Spanish colonial government transformed the island 's ethnic , cultural and physical landscapes primarily with waves of African slaves , and Canarian , and Andalusian settlers . In the Spanish imperial imagination , Puerto Rico played a secondary , but strategic role when compared to wealthier colonies like Peru and Mexico . Such a distant administrative control continued right up until the end of the 19th century helping to produce a distinctive creole Hispanic culture and language that combined elements from the Natives , Africans , and Iberian people . In 1898 , following the Spanish -- American War , the United States appropriated Puerto Rico together with most former Spanish colonies under the terms of the Treaty of Paris .   Puerto Ricans are considered natural-born citizens of the United States . However , Puerto Rico does not have a vote in the United States Congress , which governs the territory with full jurisdiction under the Puerto Rico Federal Relations Act of 1950 . As a U.S. territory , American citizens residing on the island are disenfranchised at the national level and may not vote for president and vice president of the United States . However , Congress approved a local constitution , allowing U.S. citizens on the territory to elect a governor . A 2012 referendum showed a majority -LRB- 54 % of those who voted -RRB- disagreed with `` the present form of territorial status '' , with full statehood as the preferred option among those who voted for a change of status , although a significant number of people did not answer the second question from the referendum . A fifth referendum will be held in June 2017 , and `` Statehood '' and `` Independence/Free Association '' were initially the only available options . However , at the recommendation of the Department of Justice , a `` current territorial status '' option will be added .   In early 2017 , the Puerto Rican government-debt crisis posed serious problems for the government . The outstanding bond debt had climbed to $ 70 billion at a time with 12.4 % unemployment . The debt had been increasing during a decade long recession . This was the second major financial crisis to affect the island after the Great Depression when the U.S. government , in 1935 , provided relief efforts through the Puerto Rico Reconstruction Administration . On May 3 , 2017 , Puerto Rico 's financial oversight board in the U.S. District Court in Puerto Rico filed the debt restructuring petition which was made under Title III of PROMESA . 