Grey 's Anatomy is an American medical drama television series that premiered on American Broadcasting Company -LRB- ABC -RRB- as a mid-season replacement on March 27 , 2005 . The series focuses on the fictional lives of surgical interns , residents and attending physicians , as they evolve into seasoned doctors while trying to maintain personal lives and relationships . The title is a play on Gray 's Anatomy , a human anatomy textbook by Henry Gray . The show 's premise originated with Shonda Rhimes , who serves as an executive producer , along with Betsy Beers , Mark Gordon , Krista Vernoff , Rob Corn , Mark Wilding , and Allan Heinberg . Although it is set in Seattle at the fictional Grey-Sloan Memorial Hospital -LRB- formerly Seattle Grace -RRB- it is primarily filmed in Los Angeles , California . The show was originally titled Complications , a reference to the complicated medical procedures and personal lives of the characters .   The series was created to be racially diverse , utilizing a color-blind casting technique . It revolves around the title character , Dr. Meredith Grey , played by Ellen Pompeo . The original cast consisted of nine star-billed actors : Pompeo , Sandra Oh , Katherine Heigl , Justin Chambers , T. R. Knight , Chandra Wilson , James Pickens Jr. , Isaiah Washington and Patrick Dempsey . The cast has undergone major changes through the show 's run , with many members leaving and being replaced by others . In its twelfth season , the show had a large ensemble of sixteen actors , including four from the original cast . On February 10 , 2017 , ABC renewed Grey 's Anatomy for a fourteenth season , which will premiere in the fall of 2017 .   Grey 's Anatomy , even in its thirteenth season , is ABC 's highest-rated drama ; although its ratings have fallen over the course of its run -LRB- it was once among the overall top 10 shows in the United States -RRB- , it is still one of the highest rated shows among the 18 -- 49 demographic , and the No. 3 drama on all of broadcast television . Grey 's Anatomy has been well received by critics throughout much of its run , and has been included in various critics 's year-end top ten lists . Since its inception , the show has been described by the media outlets as a television `` phenomenon '' or a `` juggernaut , '' owing to its longevity and dominant ratings . It is considered to have had a significant impact on popular culture and has received numerous awards , including the 2007 Golden Globe Award for Best Television Series -- Drama . It has received multiple Emmy nominations , including two for Outstanding Drama Series . In 2012 , Grey 's Anatomy was named the fifth-highest revenue earning show , in terms of advertising per half-hour . It is the longest running scripted primetime show currently airing on ABC , and the second-longest scripted primetime ABC show ever . 
In the United States and Canada , an attending physician -LRB- also known as an attending , rendering doc , or staff physician -RRB- is a physician -LRB- M.D. or D.O. -RRB- who has completed residency and practices medicine in a clinic or hospital , in the specialty learned during residency . An attending physician typically supervises fellows , residents , medical students , and other practitioners . Attending physicians may also maintain professorships at an affiliated medical school . This is common if the supervision of trainees is a significant part of the physician 's work . Attending physicians have final responsibility , legally and otherwise , for patient care , even when many of the minute-to-minute decisions are being made by house officers -LRB- residents -RRB- , medical students , or mid-level practitioners -LRB- i.e. physician assistants and nurse practitioners -RRB- . Attending physicians are sometimes the ` rendering physician ' listed on the patient 's official medical record , but if they are overseeing a resident or another staff member , they are ` supervising . '   Attending physicians may also still be in training , such as a fellow in a subspecialty . For example , a cardiology fellow may function as an internal medicine attending , as he or she has already finished residency in internal medicine . The term is used more commonly in teaching hospitals . In non-teaching hospitals , essentially all physicians function as attendings in some respects after completing residency .   The term `` attending physician '' or `` attending '' also refers to the formal relationship of a hospitalized patient and their primary medic during the hospitalization , as opposed to ancillary physicians assisting the primary care physician . However , even on a consultation service , at an academic center , the physician who has finished his training is called the attending or consultant , as opposed to a resident physician . 