Veronica Mars is the fictional protagonist , occasional narrator -LRB- through voiceovers -RRB- , and antiheroine of the American television series Veronica Mars , which aired on UPN from 2004 to 2006 and on The CW from 2006 to 2007 . The character was portrayed by Kristen Bell through the duration of the series . Following the show 's cancellation , Bell reprised the role in the 2014 film continuation . The character , created by Rob Thomas , was originally male and the protagonist of his unproduced novel Untitled Rob Thomas Teen Detective Novel , which eventually became the basis of the series . After the work 's transition from novel to television series , Thomas changed the character 's gender from male to female as he believed a noir piece told from a female point of view would be more interesting .   Prior to the series , Veronica had to deal with her best friend Lily being murdered , her father losing his reputation as sheriff and her mother leaving him as a result , and losing her status as one of the popular girls in high school because of it . 
Kristen Anne Bell -LRB- born July 18 , 1980 -RRB- is an American actress and singer . She began her acting career starring in stage productions and attended the Tisch School of Arts in New York . In 2001 , she made her Broadway debut as Becky Thatcher in The Adventures of Tom Sawyer and starred in the Broadway revival of The Crucible the following year . In 2004 , she had a supporting role in the film Spartan and received praise for her first leading performance in Gracie 's Choice .   Bell gained critical acclaim for her first major role as the title character in the teen noir drama television series Veronica Mars -LRB- 2004 -- 07 -RRB- . For her performance she was awarded a Saturn Award for Best Actress on Television . She reprised the eponymous role in the 2014 film continuation of the series . During her time on Veronica Mars , Bell appeared as Mary Lane in the film Reefer Madness : The Movie Musical -LRB- 2005 -RRB- , a reprise of the role she had played in the New York musical upon which the film was based . In 2007 , Bell joined the cast of the sci-fi series Heroes , playing the character Elle Bishop , for which she was nominated for a Saturn Award .   In 2008 , she had her breakout film role as the title character in Forgetting Sarah Marshall . She has since appeared in a number of comedy films , such as Couples Retreat -LRB- 2009 -RRB- , When in Rome -LRB- 2010 -RRB- , You Again -LRB- 2010 -RRB- , and The Boss -LRB- 2016 -RRB- . Bell garnered further recognition for voicing Princess Anna in the Disney film Frozen -LRB- 2013 -RRB- , the short film Frozen Fever -LRB- 2015 -RRB- , and the upcoming Frozen 2 . She also starred as the female lead on the Showtime series House of Lies . Since 2016 , she has starred in the main role of Eleanor Shellstrop on the NBC comedy series The Good Place .   Bell married actor Dax Shepard in 2013 , with whom she has two daughters . 