Chandni -LRB- Translation : Moonlight -RRB- is a 1989 Indian Hindi language romantic drama film , starring Sridevi as the eponymous lead alongside Rishi Kapoor and Vinod Khanna and Waheeda Rehman . It was directed by Yash Chopra and the screenplay was written by Kamna Chandra , Arun Kaul , Sagar Sarhadi and Umesh Kalbagh .   Chandni was a great success in 1989 and is considered one of the most successful films of all time . The profits of this romantic musical brought an end to Chopra 's lean phase . The platinum success of its music was also instrumental in bringing music back into Hindi films .   For the cast , the film reaffirmed Sridevi 's position as the top female star of the 1980s . It prolonged Rishi Kapoor 's fading career and showed that he was still profitable as a leading hero . Chandni provided a boost for Vinod Khanna 's career and reunited Kapoor and Khanna , who were last seen together in the popular Amar Akbar Anthony -LRB- 1977 -RRB- . Sridevi 's white costumes became popular as the ` Chandni Look ' and the songs of the film are still a rage . Though this was not the first time Yash Chopra shot a film in Switzerland , the extensive scenes shot there made it a popular tourist destination for Indians .   Chandni won the National Film Award for Best Popular Film of 1989 and is regarded as one of the Yash Chopra 's best films.द 
Vinod Khanna -LRB- 6 October 1946 -- 27 April 2017 -RRB- was an Indian actor and producer of Bollywood films . He was the recipient of two Filmfare awards . He was also an active politician and was the MP from the Gurdaspur constituency between 1998 -- 2009 and 2014 -- 2017 . In July 2002 , Khanna became the minister for Culture and Tourism in the Atal Behari Vajpayee cabinet . Six months later , he became the Minister of State for external affairs .   Khanna played lead roles in many films and is best remembered for his performances in Mere Apne , Mera Gaon Mera Desh , Kuchhe Dhaage , Gaddaar , Imtihaan , Muqaddar Ka Sikandar , Inkaar , Amar Akbar Anthony , Rajput , The Burning Train , Qurbani , Kudrat , Parvarish , Khoon Pasina , Dayavan , Chandni and Jurm .   After making his debut in 1968 , Khanna first acted in supporting and antagonistic roles ; as an angry young man in the movie Mere Apne , as the main villain in the super-hit movie Mera Gaon Mera Desh , and as the military officer turned fugitive in the critically acclaimed movie Achanak , which was a film based on the events of K. M. Nanavati v. State of Maharashtra .   In 1982 , at the peak of his film career , Khanna temporarily quit the film industry to follow his spiritual guru Osho Rajneesh . After a 5-year hiatus , he returned to the Hindi film industry with two hit films , Insaaf and Satyamev Jayate . 