A dragon is a legendary creature , typically scaled or fire-spewing and with serpentine , reptilian or avian traits , that features in the myths of many cultures around world . The two most well-known cultural traditions of dragon are   The European dragon , derived from European folk traditions and ultimately related to Balkans and Western Asian mythologies . Most are depicted as reptilian creatures with animal-level intelligence , and are uniquely six-limbed -LRB- four legs and a separate set of wings -RRB- .  The Chinese dragon , with counterparts in Japan -LRB- namely the Japanese dragon -RRB- , Korea and other East Asian and South Asian countries . Most are depicted as serpentine creatures with above-average intelligence , and are quadrupeds -LRB- four legs and wingless -RRB- .   The two traditions may have evolved separately , but have influenced each other to a certain extent , particularly with the cross-cultural contact of recent centuries . The English word dragon and Latin word draco derives from Greek δράκων -LRB- drákōn -RRB- , `` dragon , serpent of huge size , water-snake '' . 
Greek -LRB- Modern Greek : ελληνικά -LSB- eliniˈka -RSB- , elliniká , `` Greek '' , ελληνική γλώσσα -LSB- eliniˈci ˈɣlosa -RSB- , ellinikí glóssa , `` Greek language '' -RRB- is an independent branch of the Indo-European family of languages , native to Greece and other parts of the Eastern Mediterranean . It has the longest documented history of any living language , spanning 34 centuries of written records . Its writing system has been the Greek alphabet for the major part of its history ; other systems , such as Linear B and the Cypriot syllabary , were used previously . The alphabet arose from the Phoenician script and was in turn the basis of the Latin , Cyrillic , Armenian , Coptic , Gothic and many other writing systems .   The Greek language holds an important place in the history of the Western world and Christianity ; the canon of ancient Greek literature includes seminal works in the Western canon such as the epic poems Iliad and Odyssey . Greek is also the language in which many of the foundational texts in science , especially astronomy , mathematics and logic , and Western philosophy , such as the Platonic dialogues and the works of Aristotle , are composed ; the New Testament of the Christian Bible was written in Koiné Greek . Together with the Latin texts and traditions of the Roman world , the study of the Greek texts and society of antiquity constitutes the discipline of Classics .   During antiquity , Greek was a widely spoken lingua franca in the Mediterranean world and many places beyond . It would eventually become the official parlance of the Byzantine Empire and develop into Medieval Greek . In its modern form , the Greek language is the official language in two countries , Greece and Cyprus , a recognised minority language in seven other countries , and is one of the 24 official languages of the European Union . The language is spoken by at least 13.2 million people today in Greece , Cyprus , Italy , Albania , Turkey , and the Greek diaspora .   Greek roots are often used to coin new words for other languages ; Greek and Latin are the predominant sources of international scientific vocabulary . 