Mexico -LRB- México , -LSB- ˈme.xi.ko -RSB- , modern Nahuatl -RRB- , officially the United Mexican States -LRB- -LSB- Estados Unidos Mexicanos , links = no -RSB- , -RRB- , is a federal republic in the southern portion of North America . It is bordered to the north by the United States ; to the south and west by the Pacific Ocean ; to the southeast by Guatemala , Belize , and the Caribbean Sea ; and to the east by the Gulf of Mexico . Covering almost two million square kilometers -LRB- over 760,000 sq mi -RRB- , Mexico is the sixth largest country in the Americas by total area and the 13th largest independent nation in the world . With an estimated population of over 120 million , it is the eleventh most populous country and the most populous Spanish-speaking country in the world while being the second most populous country in Latin America . Mexico is a federation comprising 31 states and a federal district that is also its capital and most populous city . Other metropolises include Guadalajara , Monterrey , Puebla , Toluca , Tijuana and León .   Pre-Columbian Mexico was home to many advanced Mesoamerican civilizations , such as the Olmec , Toltec , Teotihuacan , Zapotec , Maya and Aztec before first contact with Europeans . In 1521 , the Spanish Empire conquered and colonized the territory from its base in Mexico-Tenochtitlan , which was administered as the viceroyalty of New Spain . Three centuries later , this territory became Mexico following recognition in 1821 after the colony 's Mexican War of Independence . The tumultuous post-independence period was characterized by economic instability and many political changes . The Mexican -- American War -LRB- 1846 -- 48 -RRB- led to the territorial cession of the extensive northern territories to the United States . The Pastry War , the Franco-Mexican War , a civil war , two empires and a domestic dictatorship occurred through the 19th century . The dictatorship was overthrown in the Mexican Revolution of 1910 , which culminated with the promulgation of the 1917 Constitution and the emergence of the country 's current political system .   Mexico has the fifteenth largest nominal GDP and the eleventh largest by purchasing power parity . The Mexican economy is strongly linked to those of its North American Free Trade Agreement -LRB- NAFTA -RRB- partners , especially the United States . Mexico was the first Latin American member of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development -LRB- OECD -RRB- , joining in 1994 . It is classified as an upper-middle income country by the World Bank and a newly industrialized country by several analysts . By 2050 , Mexico could become the world 's fifth or seventh largest economy . The country is considered both a regional power and middle power , and is often identified as an emerging global power . Due to its rich culture and history , Mexico ranks first in the Americas and seventh in the world by number of UNESCO World Heritage Sites . Mexico is a megadiverse country , ranking fourth in the world by biodiversity . In 2016 it was the eighth most visited country in the world , with 35 million international arrivals . Mexico is a member of the United Nations , the World Trade Organization , the G8 +5 , the G20 , the Uniting for Consensus and the Pacific Alliance . 
The Mexican War of Independence -LRB- -LSB- Guerra de Independencia de México , links = no -RSB- -RRB- was an armed conflict , and the culmination of a political and social process which ended the rule of Spain in 1821 in the territory of New Spain . The war had its antecedent in Napoleon 's French invasion of Spain in 1808 ; it extended from the Grito de Dolores by Father Miguel Hidalgo y Costilla on September 16 , 1810 , to the entrance of the Army of the Three Guarantees led by Agustín de Iturbide to Mexico City on September 27 , 1821 . September 16 is celebrated as Mexican Independence Day .   The movement for independence was inspired by the Age of Enlightenment and the American and French Revolutions . By that time the educated elite of New Spain had begun to reflect on the relations between Spain and its colonial kingdoms . Changes in the social and political structure occasioned by Bourbon Reforms and a deep economic crisis in New Spain caused discomfort among the Creole -LRB- native-born -RRB- elite .   The dramatic political events in Europe , the French Revolutionary Wars and the conquests of Napoleon deeply influenced events in New Spain . In 1808 , Charles IV and Ferdinand VII were forced to abdicate in favor of the French Emperor , who then made his elder brother Joseph king . The same year , the ayuntamiento -LRB- city council -RRB- of Mexico City , supported by viceroy José de Iturrigaray , claimed sovereignty in the absence of the legitimate king . That led to a coup against the viceroy ; when it was suppressed , the leaders of the movement were jailed .   Despite the defeat in Mexico City , small groups of rebels met in other cities of New Spain to raise movements against colonial rule . In 1810 , after being discovered , Querétaro conspirators chose to take up arms on September 16 in the company of peasants and indigenous inhabitants of Dolores -LRB- Guanajuato -RRB- , who were called to action by the secular Catholic priest Miguel Hidalgo , former rector of the Colegio de San Nicolás Obispo .   After 1810 the independence movement went through several stages , as leaders were imprisoned or executed by forces loyal to Spain . At first they recognized the sovereignty of Ferdinand VII over Spain and its colonies , but later the leaders took more radical positions , including such issues of social order as the abolition of slavery . Secular priest José María Morelos called the separatist provinces to form the Congress of Chilpancingo , which gave the insurgency its own legal framework . After the defeat of Morelos , the movement survived as a guerrilla war under the leadership of Vicente Guerrero . By 1820 , the few rebel groups survived most notably in the Sierra Madre del Sur and Veracruz .   The reinstatement of the liberal Constitution of Cadiz in 1820 caused a change of mind among the elite groups who had supported Spanish rule . Monarchist Creoles affected by the constitution decided to support the independence of New Spain ; they sought an alliance with the former insurgent resistance . Agustín de Iturbide led the military arm of the conspirators and in early 1821 he met Vicente Guerrero . Both proclaimed the Plan of Iguala , which called for the union of all insurgent factions and was supported by both the aristocracy and clergy of New Spain . It called for monarchy in an independent Mexico . Finally , the independence of Mexico was achieved on September 27 , 1821 .   After that , the mainland of New Spain was organized as the Mexican Empire . This ephemeral Catholic monarchy changed to a federal republic in 1823 , due to internal conflicts and the separation of Central America from Mexico .   After some Spanish reconquest attempts , including the expedition of Isidro Barradas in 1829 , Spain under the rule of Isabella II recognized the independence of Mexico in 1836 . 