Elvis , starring Elvis Presley , is a United States television special that aired on December 3 , 1968 on the NBC television network . The special is commonly referred to as the 68 Comeback Special , because of subsequent developments in Presley 's career . It was directed by Steve Binder and produced by Binder and Bones Howe . Music from the special was released before the broadcast , on the album Elvis -LRB- NBC TV Special -RRB- .   Presley 's informal jamming in front of a small audience in the special is regarded as a forerunner of the `` unplugged '' concept , later popularized by MTV . 
A television special is a television program which temporarily interrupts programming normally scheduled for a given time slot . Sometimes , however , the term is given to a telecast of a theatrical film , such as The Wizard of Oz , which is not part of a regular television anthology series such as NBC Saturday Night at the Movies -LRB- 1961 -- 1978 -RRB- .   The term originally applied especially to major dramatized presentations of an hour or two which were broadcast during times normally occupied by episodes of one or more weekly television series , thus replacing the series for that specific week . In the 1960s , multi-part specials , over several days in a week , or on the same day for several weeks , evolved from this format , though these were more commonly called miniseries . The term `` TV special '' formerly applied more to dramas or musicals presented live or on videotape -LRB- such as Peter Pan -RRB- than to filmed presentations especially made for television , which were -LRB- and still are -RRB- designated as made-for-TV movies .   Other forms of TV specials are one-time comedy or musical events , one-shot seasonal programs -LRB- e.g. Christmas television specials -RRB- , irregular sports events -LRB- e.g. the Olympic Games or the Super Bowl -RRB- , live coverage of a popular cultural event -LRB- such as the Academy Awards or Macy 's Thanksgiving Day Parade -RRB- , fundraising campaigns -LRB- telethon -RRB- or spontaneous interruptions of active programming to cover an important news event -LRB- election coverage , however , is generally scheduled -RRB- .   Today , with the rise of cable , online streaming , and home video , it is virtually impossible for an annual telecast of a program to have the same impact on television as before . In pre-cable and pre-home video days , television audiences often had to wait an entire year or more to see a special program or film that had a great impact on first viewing . Online streaming makes it possible for viewers to watch a television show again almost immediately after it is aired , and home video , digital downloads as well as internet television and video on demand , make it possible for the general public to own copies of television shows and films .   Most TV specials can be filmed in one country but broadcast in another . For example , a 1998 TV special The Wiggles Live at Disneyland was filmed in Disneyland in Anaheim , California , USA but broadcast on the Disney Channel in Australia . 