The Ilkhanate , also spelled Il-khanate -LRB- ایلخانان , Ilkhānān ; Хүлэгийн улс , Hulagu-yn Ulus -RRB- , was established as a khanate that formed the southwestern sector of the Mongol Empire , ruled by the Mongol House of Hulagu . It was founded in the 13th century and was based primarily in Iran as well as neighboring territories , such as present-day Azerbaijan and the central and eastern parts of present-day Turkey . The Ilkhanate was originally based on the campaigns of Genghis Khan in the Khwarazmian Empire in 1219 -- 24 and was founded by Hulagu Khan , a grandson of Genghis Khan . With the fragmentation of the Mongol Empire after 1259 it became a functionally separate khanate . At its greatest extent , the state expanded into territories that today comprise most of Iran , Iraq , Armenia , Azerbaijan , Georgia , Turkmenistan , Turkey , western Afghanistan , and southwestern Pakistan . Later Ilkhanate rulers , beginning with Ghazan in 1295 , would convert to Islam . 
Mahmud Ghazan -LRB- 1271 -- 11 May 1304 -RRB- -LRB- , , sometimes referred to as Casanus by Westerners -RRB- was the seventh ruler of the Mongol Empire 's Ilkhanate division in modern-day Iran from 1295 to 1304 . He was the son of Arghun and Quthluq Khatun , continuing a long line of rulers who were direct descendants of Genghis Khan . Considered the most prominent of the Ilkhans , he is best known for making a political conversion to Islam in 1295 when he took the throne , marking a turning point for the dominant religion of Mongols in West Asia -LRB- Iran , Iraq , Anatolia and Trans-Caucassia -RRB- . His principal wife was Kököchin , a Mongol princess -LRB- originally betrothed to Ghazan 's father Arghun before his death -RRB- sent by his Khagan Kublai Khan , and escorted from the Mongol capital to the Ilkhanate by Marco Polo .   Military conflicts during Ghazan 's reign included war with the Egyptian Mamluks for control of Syria , and battles with the Turko-Mongol Chagatai Khanate . Ghazan also pursued diplomatic contacts with Europe , continuing his predecessors ' unsuccessful attempts at forming a Franco-Mongol alliance . A man of high culture , Ghazan spoke multiple languages , had many hobbies , and reformed many elements of the Ilkhanate , especially in the matter of standardizing currency and fiscal policy . 