The Beatles were an English rock band formed in Liverpool in 1960 . With members John Lennon , Paul McCartney , George Harrison and Ringo Starr , they became widely regarded as the foremost and most influential act of the rock era . Rooted in skiffle , beat and 1950s rock and roll , the Beatles later experimented with several musical styles , ranging from pop ballads and Indian music to psychedelia and hard rock , often incorporating classical elements and unconventional recording techniques in innovative ways . In 1963 their enormous popularity first emerged as `` Beatlemania '' , and as the group 's music grew in sophistication in subsequent years , led by primary songwriters Lennon and McCartney , they came to be perceived as an embodiment of the ideals shared by the counterculture of the 1960s .   The Beatles built their reputation playing clubs in Liverpool and Hamburg over a three-year period from 1960 , with Stuart Sutcliffe initially serving as bass player . The core of Lennon , McCartney and Harrison went through a succession of drummers , including Pete Best , before asking Starr to join them in 1962 . Manager Brian Epstein moulded them into a professional act , and producer George Martin guided and developed their recordings , greatly expanding their popularity in the United Kingdom after their first hit , `` Love Me Do '' , in late 1962 . They acquired the nickname `` the Fab Four '' as Beatlemania grew in Britain the next year , and by early 1964 became international stars , leading the `` British Invasion '' of the United States pop market . From 1965 onwards , the Beatles produced increasingly innovative recordings , including the albums Rubber Soul -LRB- 1965 -RRB- , Revolver -LRB- 1966 -RRB- , Sgt. Pepper 's Lonely Hearts Club Band -LRB- 1967 -RRB- , The Beatles -LRB- commonly known as the White Album , 1968 -RRB- and Abbey Road -LRB- 1969 -RRB- . After their break-up in 1970 , they each enjoyed successful musical careers of varying lengths . McCartney and Starr , the surviving members , remain musically active . Lennon was shot and killed in December 1980 , and Harrison died of lung cancer in November 2001 .   The Beatles are the best-selling band in history , with estimated sales of over 600 million records worldwide . They have had more number-one albums on the British charts and sold more singles in the UK than any other act . According to the RIAA , the Beatles are also the best-selling music artists in the United States , with 178 million certified units . In 2008 , the group topped Billboard magazine 's list of the all-time most successful `` Hot 100 '' artists ; , they hold the record for most number-one hits on the Hot 100 chart with twenty . They have received ten Grammy Awards , an Academy Award for Best Original Song Score and fifteen Ivor Novello Awards . The group was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1988 , and all four were inducted individually from 1994 to 2015 . They were also collectively included in Time magazine 's compilation of the twentieth century 's 100 most influential people . 
Liverpool -LRB- -LSB- ˈlɪvərpuːl -RSB- -RRB- is a city in North West England , with an estimated population of 478,580 in 2015 . With its surrounding areas it is the fifth largest metropolitan area in the UK , with over 2.24 million people in 2011 . The local authority is Liverpool City Council , the most populous local government district within the metropolitan county of Merseyside and the largest within the Liverpool City Region .   Liverpool sits on the eastern side of the Mersey Estuary , and historically lay within the ancient hundred of West Derby in the south west of the county of Lancashire . It became a borough in 1207 and a city in 1880 . In 1889 , it became a county borough independent of Lancashire . Its growth as a major port was paralleled by the expansion of the city throughout the Industrial Revolution . Along with general cargo , freight , raw materials such as coal and cotton , the city was also involved in the Atlantic slave trade . Liverpool was home to both the Cunard and White Star Line , and was the port of registry of the ocean liner RMS Titanic , the RMS Lusitania , Queen Mary and Olympic .   The popularity of The Beatles and other groups from the Merseybeat era contributes to Liverpool 's status as a tourist destination . Liverpool is also the home of two Premier League football clubs , Liverpool and Everton , matches between the two being known as the Merseyside derby . The city 's namesake club is the sole British club to win five European Cups . The world-famous Grand National horse race takes place annually at Aintree Racecourse on the outskirts of the city .   The city celebrated its 800th anniversary in 2007 , and was European Capital of Culture together with Stavanger , Norway , in 2008 . Several areas of the city centre were granted World Heritage Site status by UNESCO in 2004 . The Liverpool Maritime Mercantile City includes the Pier Head , Albert Dock , and William Brown Street . Liverpool 's status as a port city has contributed to its diverse population , which , historically , was drawn from a wide range of peoples , cultures , and religions , particularly from Ireland and Wales . The city is also home to the oldest Black African community in the country and the oldest Chinese community in Europe .   Natives of the city of Liverpool are referred to as Liverpudlians , and colloquially as `` Scousers '' , a reference to `` scouse '' , a form of stew . The word `` Scouse '' has also become synonymous with the Liverpool accent and dialect . Another term for denizens of the city is Liverpolitan , although Liverpolitan may also be used for residents of the wider Liverpool City Region . 