Beauty and the Beast is a 2017 American musical romantic fantasy film directed by Bill Condon from a screenplay written by Stephen Chbosky and Evan Spiliotopoulos , and co-produced by Walt Disney Pictures and Mandeville Films . The film is based on Disney 's 1991 animated film of the same name , itself an adaptation of Jeanne-Marie Leprince de Beaumont 's eighteenth-century fairy tale . The film features an ensemble cast that includes Emma Watson and Dan Stevens as the titular characters with Luke Evans , Kevin Kline , Josh Gad , Ewan McGregor , Stanley Tucci , Audra McDonald , Gugu Mbatha-Raw , Nathan Mack , Ian McKellen and Emma Thompson in supporting roles .   Principal photography began at Shepperton Studios in Surrey , England on May 18 , 2015 , and ended on August 21 . Beauty and the Beast premiered on February 23 , 2017 , at Spencer House in London and was released in the United States on March 17 , 2017 , in the standard , Disney Digital 3-D , RealD 3D , IMAX and IMAX 3D formats along with Dolby Cinema . The film received positive reviews from critics and audiences , with many praising Watson 's performance and has grossed over $ 1.2 billion worldwide , making it the highest-grossing film of 2017 and the 10th highest-grossing film of all time . 
Emma Charlotte Duerre Watson -LRB- born 15 April 1990 -RRB- is a French-British actress , model , and activist . Born in Paris and brought up in Oxfordshire , Watson attended the Dragon School and trained as an actress at the Oxford branch of Stagecoach Theatre Arts . She rose to prominence after landing her first professional acting role as Hermione Granger in the Harry Potter film series , having acted only in school plays previously . Watson appeared in all eight Harry Potter films from 2001 to 2011 , earning worldwide fame , critical accolades , and around $ 60 million .   Watson continued to work outside of the Harry Potter films , lending her voice to The Tale of Despereaux -LRB- 2008 -RRB- and appearing in the 2007 television adaptation of the novel Ballet Shoes . Since then , she has taken on starring roles in The Perks of Being a Wallflower -LRB- 2012 -RRB- and The Bling Ring -LRB- 2013 -RRB- , made a brief appearance as an exaggerated version of herself in This Is the End -LRB- 2013 -RRB- , and portrayed the title character 's adopted daughter in Noah -LRB- 2014 -RRB- . In 2017 , she portrayed Belle in a live-action adaptation of Beauty and the Beast . Her other releases include Regression -LRB- 2015 -RRB- , Colonia -LRB- 2015 -RRB- and The Circle -LRB- 2017 -RRB- .   From 2011 to 2014 , Watson split her time between working on film projects and continuing her education , studying at Brown University and Worcester College , Oxford and graduating from Brown with a bachelor 's degree in English literature in May 2014 . Her modelling work has included campaigns for Burberry and Lancôme . As a fashion consultant , she helped create a line of clothing for People Tree . She was honoured by the British Academy of Film and Television Arts in 2014 , winning for British Artist of the Year . That same year , she was appointed as a UN Women Goodwill Ambassador and helped launch the UN Women campaign HeForShe , which calls for men to advocate gender equality . 
Nathan Mack -LRB- born 15 April 2007 -RRB- is a British child actor who is known for portraying Tyler in 2014 's Babylon and Chip Potts in the 2017 live-action adaptation of Beauty and the Beast . He attends Stagecoach Performing Arts School for children , which also helped him land the role . 
Emma Thompson -LRB- born 15 April 1959 -RRB- is a British actress , activist , author , comedienne and screenwriter . Born in London to English actor Eric Thompson and Scottish actress Phyllida Law , Thompson was educated at Newnham College , University of Cambridge , where she became a member of the Footlights troupe . After appearing in several comedy programmes , she first came to prominence in 1987 in two BBC TV series , Tutti Frutti and Fortunes of War , winning the BAFTA TV Award for Best Actress for her work in both series . Her first film role was in the 1989 romantic comedy The Tall Guy , and in the early 1990s she frequently collaborated with her then husband , actor and director Kenneth Branagh . The pair became popular in the British media and co-starred in several films , including Dead Again -LRB- 1991 -RRB- and Much Ado About Nothing -LRB- 1993 -RRB- .   In 1992 , Thompson won an Academy Award and a BAFTA Award for Best Actress for the period drama Howards End . In 1993 , she garnered dual Academy Award nominations for her roles in The Remains of the Day as the housekeeper of a grand household and In the Name of the Father as a lawyer . Thompson scripted and starred in Sense and Sensibility -LRB- 1995 -RRB- , which earned her -LRB- among other awards -RRB- an Academy Award for Best Adapted Screenplay , and a BAFTA Award for Best Actress . Other notable film and television credits include : the Harry Potter film series , Wit -LRB- 2001 -RRB- , Love Actually -LRB- 2003 -RRB- , Angels in America -LRB- 2003 -RRB- , Nanny McPhee -LRB- 2005 -RRB- , Stranger than Fiction -LRB- 2006 -RRB- , Last Chance Harvey -LRB- 2008 -RRB- , Men in Black 3 -LRB- 2012 -RRB- , Brave -LRB- 2012 -RRB- and Beauty and the Beast -LRB- 2017 -RRB- . In 2013 , she received acclaim and several award nominations for her portrayal of P. L. Travers in Saving Mr. Banks .   Thompson is married to actor Greg Wise , with whom she lives in London . They have one daughter and an adopted son . She is an activist in the areas of human rights and environmentalism and has received criticism for her outspokenness . She has written two books adapted from The Tale of Peter Rabbit . 
Gugulethu Sophia Mbatha -LRB- born 21 April 1983 -RRB- , known as Gugu Mbatha-Raw -LRB- pronounced -LSB- ˈguːguː_mmˈbɑːtə_rɔː -RSB- -RRB- , is a British stage and film actress .   Working in British television and stage productions , she gained prominence in a recurring role on Doctor Who , playing Tish Jones , sister of Martha Jones . She garnered attention in American productions , beginning with a supporting role in the Tom Hanks comedy Larry Crowne , and starring roles on the short-lived television series Undercovers and Touch . She earned critical acclaim for her performances in the British period drama Belle -LRB- 2013 -RRB- and the romantic drama Beyond the Lights -LRB- 2014 -RRB- , receiving numerous accolade nominations from critics worldwide .   In 2015 , Mbatha-Raw premiered the title role in Jessica Swale 's play Nell Gwynn , an actress and mistress of King Charles II of England . She was nominated for an Evening Standard Theatre Award for Best Actress for her performance . Her performance as Kelly in the critically acclaimed `` San Junipero '' , an episode in season three of the cult anthology series Black Mirror was highly praised . 
Luke Evans -LRB- born 15 April 1979 -RRB- is a Welsh actor . Evans began his career on the stage , performing in many of London 's West End productions such as Rent , Miss Saigon , and Piaf before getting his Hollywood breakthrough role starring in the Clash of the Titans 2010 remake . Following his debut , Evans was cast in such action and thriller films as Immortals -LRB- 2011 -RRB- , The Raven -LRB- 2012 -RRB- , and the re-imagined The Three Musketeers -LRB- 2011 -RRB- .   In 2013 , Evans starred as the main antagonist Owen Shaw in the blockbuster Fast & Furious 6 , and also played Bard the Bowman in Peter Jackson 's three-part adaptation of J. R. R. Tolkien 's The Hobbit . Evans also portrayed the vampire Dracula in the character 's film origin story , Dracula Untold . In 2017 , Evans starred as Gaston in Disney 's live-action adaptation of Beauty and the Beast . 
Ewan Gordon McGregor -LRB- -LSB- ˌjuːən_məˈɡrɛɡər -RSB- born 31 March 1971 -RRB- is a Scottish actor . His first professional role was in 1993 , when he won a leading role in the Channel 4 series Lipstick on Your Collar . He is known for playing heroin addict Mark Renton in the drama films Trainspotting -LRB- 1996 -RRB- and T2 Trainspotting -LRB- 2017 -RRB- , the Jedi Obi-Wan Kenobi in the Star Wars prequel trilogy and Star Wars : The Force Awakens -LRB- 1999 -- 2015 -RRB- , poet Christian in the musical film Moulin Rouge ! -LRB- 2001 -RRB- , Camerlengo Father Patrick McKenna in Angels and Demons -LRB- 2009 -RRB- , Dr. Alfred Jones in the romantic comedy-drama Salmon Fishing in the Yemen -LRB- 2011 -RRB- , and Lumière in a live-action adaptation of Beauty and the Beast -LRB- 2017 -RRB- .   He received Golden Globe nominations for Best Actor -- Musical or Comedy for both Moulin Rouge ! and Salmon Fishing in the Yemen . McGregor has also starred in theatre productions of Guys and Dolls -LRB- 2005 -- 07 -RRB- and Othello -LRB- 2007 -- 08 -RRB- . He was ranked number 36 on Empire magazine 's `` The Top 100 Movie Stars of All Time '' list in 1997 . In a 2004 poll for the BBC , McGregor was named the fourth most influential person in British culture . He has been involved in charity work and has served as an ambassador for UNICEF UK since 2004 . In 2016 , he received the BAFTA Britannia Humanitarian Award . 
Daniel Jonathan Stevens -LRB- born 10 October 1982 -RRB- is an English actor . He is best known for his role as Matthew Crawley in the ITV acclaimed period drama series Downton Abbey . He also starred as David in the thriller film The Guest , Sir Lancelot in Night at the Museum : Secret of the Tomb , and as The Beast/Prince in Walt Disney 's live action adaptation of Beauty and the Beast . He currently stars as David Haller in the FX series Legion . 
Sir Ian Murray McKellen , -LRB- born 25 May 1939 -RRB- is an English actor . He is the recipient of six Laurence Olivier Awards , a Tony Award , a Golden Globe Award , a Screen Actors Guild Award , a BIF Award , two Saturn Awards , four Drama Desk Awards , and two Critics ' Choice Awards . He has also received two Oscar nominations , four BAFTA nominations and five Emmy Award nominations .   McKellen 's career spans genres ranging from Shakespearean and modern theatre to popular fantasy and science fiction . The BBC states his `` performances have guaranteed him a place in the canon of English stage and film actors '' . A recipient of every major theatrical award in the UK , McKellen is regarded as a British cultural icon . He started his professional career in 1961 at the Belgrade Theatre as a member of their highly regarded repertory company . In 1965 McKellen made his first West End appearance . In 1969 he was invited to join the Prospect Theatre Company to play the lead parts in Shakespeare 's Richard II and Marlowe 's Edward II , and he firmly established himself as one of the country 's foremost classical actors . In the 1970s McKellen became a stalwart of the Royal Shakespeare Company and the National Theatre of Great Britain . He achieved worldwide fame for his notable film roles , which include Gandalf in The Lord of the Rings and The Hobbit trilogies and Magneto in the X-Men films , both of which introduced McKellen to a new generation .   McKellen was appointed Commander of the Order of the British Empire in the 1979 Birthday Honours , was knighted in the 1991 New Year Honours for services to the performing arts , and made a Companion of Honour for services to drama and to equality in the 2008 New Year Honours . He has been openly gay since 1988 , and continues to be a champion for LGBT social movements worldwide . He was made a Freeman of the City of London in October 2014 . 