Sir Ridley Scott -LRB- born 30 November 1937 -RRB- is an English film director and producer . Following his commercial breakthrough with the science-fiction horror film Alien -LRB- 1979 -RRB- , his best known works are the neo-noir dystopian science fiction film Blade Runner -LRB- 1982 -RRB- , crime drama Thelma & Louise -LRB- 1991 -RRB- , historical drama and Best Picture Oscar winner Gladiator -LRB- 2000 -RRB- , war film Black Hawk Down -LRB- 2001 -RRB- , crime thriller Hannibal -LRB- 2001 -RRB- , biographical film American Gangster -LRB- 2007 -RRB- , and science fiction films Prometheus -LRB- 2012 -RRB- and The Martian -LRB- 2015 -RRB- .   Scott is known for his atmospheric , highly concentrated visual style . Though his films range widely in setting and period , they frequently showcase memorable imagery of urban environments , whether 2nd century Rome -LRB- Gladiator -RRB- , 12th century Jerusalem -LRB- Kingdom of Heaven -RRB- , Medieval England -LRB- Robin Hood -RRB- , contemporary Mogadishu -LRB- Black Hawk Down -RRB- , or the future cityscapes of Blade Runner . His films are also known for their strong female characters . Scott has been nominated for three Academy Awards for Directing -LRB- for Thelma & Louise , Gladiator and Black Hawk Down -RRB- . In 1995 , both Ridley and his brother Tony received a BAFTA for Outstanding British Contribution To Cinema . In 2003 , Scott was knighted for his `` services to the British film industry '' . In a 2004 BBC poll Scott was named the tenth most influential person in British culture . In 2015 he received an honorary doctorate from the Royal College of Art in London . 
The Martian is a 2015 American science fiction film directed by Ridley Scott , based on Andy Weir 's 2011 novel The Martian . Matt Damon stars as an astronaut who is mistakenly presumed dead and left behind on Mars . The film depicts his struggle to survive and others ' efforts to rescue him . The film 's ensemble cast also features Jessica Chastain , Kristen Wiig , Jeff Daniels , Michael Peña , Kate Mara , Sean Bean , Sebastian Stan , Donald Glover , Aksel Hennie and Chiwetel Ejiofor .   Producer Simon Kinberg began developing the film after 20th Century Fox optioned the novel in March 2013 , which Drew Goddard adapted into a screenplay and was initially attached to direct , but the film did not move forward . Scott replaced Goddard , and with Damon in place as the main character , production was approved . Filming began in November 2014 and lasted approximately seventy days . Twenty sets were built on a sound stage in Budapest , Hungary , one of the largest in the world . Wadi Rum in Jordan was also used as a backdrop for filming .   The film premiered at the 2015 Toronto International Film Festival on September 11 , 2015 , followed by the United States ' theatrical release on October 2 , 2015 , by 20th Century Fox . The film was released in 2D , 3D , IMAX 3D and 4DX . It received critical acclaim and has grossed over $ 630 million worldwide , becoming Scott 's highest-grossing film to date , as well as the tenth-highest-grossing film of 2015 . It received several accolades , including the Golden Globe Award for Best Motion Picture -- Musical or Comedy , seven Academy Award nominations , including Best Picture and Best Adapted Screenplay for Goddard , and the 2016 long form Hugo Award for Best Dramatic Presentation . Damon won the Golden Globe for Best Actor in a Musical or Comedy and was nominated for several awards including the Academy Award for Best Actor , the BAFTA for Best Actor , and the Critic 's Choice Award for Best Actor . 