Pixar -LRB- -LSB- ˈpɪksɑr -RSB- -RRB- , also referred to as Pixar Animation Studios , is an American computer animation film studio based in Emeryville , California that is a subsidiary of The Walt Disney Company . Pixar began in 1979 as the Graphics Group , part of the Lucasfilm computer division , before its spin-out as a corporation in 1986 , with funding by Apple Inc. co-founder Steve Jobs , who became the majority shareholder . Disney purchased Pixar in 2006 at a valuation of $ 7.4 billion , a transaction that resulted in Jobs becoming Disney 's largest single shareholder at the time . Pixar is best known for CGI-animated feature films created with RenderMan , Pixar 's own implementation of the industry-standard RenderMan image-rendering application programming interface , used to generate high-quality images .   Pixar has produced seventeen feature films , beginning with Toy Story -LRB- 1995 -RRB- , which was the first-ever computer-animated feature film , and its most recent being Finding Dory -LRB- 2016 -RRB- . All 17 of its films have debuted with CinemaScore ratings of at least an `` A − , '' indicating positive receptions with audiences . The studio has also produced several short films . , its feature films have earned approximately $ 10.8 billion at the box office worldwide , with an average worldwide gross of $ 634 million per film . Finding Dory , along with its predecessor Finding Nemo -LRB- 2003 -RRB- , as well as Toy Story 3 -LRB- 2010 -RRB- are among the 50 highest-grossing films of all time , with the lattermost film being the third all-time highest-grossing animated film with a gross of $ 1.063 billion . Fourteen of Pixar 's films are also among the 50 highest-grossing animated films of all time .   The studio has earned sixteen Academy Awards , seven Golden Globe Awards , and eleven Grammy Awards , among many other awards and acknowledgments . Many of Pixar 's films have been nominated for the Academy Award for Best Animated Feature since its inauguration in 2001 , with eight winning ; this includes Finding Nemo and Toy Story 3 , along with The Incredibles -LRB- 2004 -RRB- , Ratatouille -LRB- 2007 -RRB- , WALL-E -LRB- 2008 -RRB- , Up -LRB- 2009 -RRB- , Brave -LRB- 2012 -RRB- , and Inside Out -LRB- 2015 -RRB- . Monsters , Inc. -LRB- 2001 -RRB- and Cars -LRB- 2006 -RRB- are the only two films that were nominated for the award without winning it , while Cars 2 -LRB- 2011 -RRB- , Monsters University -LRB- 2013 -RRB- , The Good Dinosaur -LRB- 2015 -RRB- , and Finding Dory have not been nominated . Up and Toy Story 3 were also the respective second and third animated films to be nominated for the Academy Award for Best Picture , the first being Walt Disney Animation Studios ' Beauty and the Beast -LRB- 1991 -RRB- . Luxo Jr. , a character from the studio 's 1986 short film of the same name , is the studio 's mascot .   On September 6 , 2009 , Pixar executives John Lasseter , Brad Bird , Pete Docter , Andrew Stanton , and Lee Unkrich were presented with the Golden Lion award for Lifetime Achievement by the biennial Venice Film Festival . The award was presented by Lucasfilm 's founder George Lucas . 
Steven Paul Jobs -LRB- -LSB- ˈdʒɒbz -RSB- February 24 , 1955 -- October 5 , 2011 -RRB- was an American entrepreneur , businessman , inventor , and industrial designer . He was the co-founder , chairman , and chief executive officer -LRB- CEO -RRB- of Apple Inc. ; CEO and majority shareholder of Pixar ; a member of The Walt Disney Company 's board of directors following its acquisition of Pixar ; and founder , chairman , and CEO of NeXT . Jobs and Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak are widely recognized as pioneers of the microcomputer revolution of the 1970s and 1980s .   Jobs was born in San Francisco to Syrian parents who had to put him up for adoption at birth ; he was raised in the San Francisco Bay Area during the 1960s . Jobs briefly attended Reed College in 1972 before dropping out . He then decided to travel through India in 1974 seeking enlightenment and studying Zen Buddhism . Jobs 's declassified FBI report stated that an acquaintance knew that Jobs had used the illegal drugs marijuana and LSD while he was in college . Jobs once told a reporter that taking LSD was `` one of the two or three most important things '' he did in his life .   Jobs and Wozniak co-founded Apple in 1976 to sell Wozniak 's Apple I personal computer . The visionaries gained fame and wealth a year later for the Apple II , one of the first highly successful mass-produced personal computers . In 1979 , after a tour of PARC , Jobs saw the commercial potential of the Xerox Alto , which was mouse-driven and had a graphical user interface -LRB- GUI -RRB- . This led to development of the unsuccessful Apple Lisa in 1983 , followed by the breakthrough Macintosh in 1984 . In addition to being the first mass-produced computer with a GUI , the Macintosh introduced the sudden rise of the desktop publishing industry in 1985 with the addition of the Apple LaserWriter , the first laser printer to feature vector graphics . Following a long power struggle , Jobs was forced out of Apple in 1985 .   After leaving Apple , Jobs took a few of its members with him to found NeXT , a computer platform development company specializing in state-of-the-art computers for higher-education and business markets . In addition , Jobs helped to initiate the development of the visual effects industry when he funded the spinout of the computer graphics division of George Lucas 's Lucasfilm in 1986 . The new company , Pixar , would eventually produce the first fully computer-animated film , Toy Story -- an event made possible in part because of Jobs 's financial support .   In 1997 , Apple merged with NeXT . Within a few months of the merger , Jobs became CEO of his former company , reviving Apple at the verge of bankruptcy . Beginning in 1997 with the `` Think different '' advertising campaign , Jobs worked closely with designer Jonathan Ive to develop a line of products that would have larger cultural ramifications : the iMac , iTunes and iTunes Store , Apple Store , iPod , iPhone , App Store , and the iPad . Mac OS was also revamped into OS X -LRB- renamed `` macOS '' in 2016 -RRB- , based on NeXT 's NeXTSTEP platform .   Jobs was diagnosed with a pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor in 2003 and died on October 5 , 2011 , of respiratory arrest related to the tumor . 