Dona Maria I -LRB- English : Mary I ; 17 December 1734 -- 20 March 1816 -RRB- was Queen of Portugal , Brazil , and the Algarves . Known as Maria the Pious -LRB- in Portugal -RRB- , or Maria the Mad -LRB- in Brazil -RRB- , she was the first undisputed Queen regnant of Portugal . With Napoleon 's European conquests , her court , then under the direction of Prince Dom João , the Prince Regent , moved to Brazil , then a Portuguese colony . Later on , Brazil would be elevated from the rank of a colony to that of a kingdom , with the consequential formation of the United Kingdom of Portugal , Brazil and the Algarves . 
The Monarchs of Portugal ruled from the establishment of the Kingdom of Portugal , in 1139 , to the deposition of the Portuguese monarchy and creation of the Portuguese Republic with the 5 October 1910 revolution .   Through the nearly 800 years which Portugal was a monarchy , the kings held various other titles and pretensions . Two Kings of Portugal , Ferdinand I and Afonso V , also claimed the crown of Castile . When the House of Habsburg came into power , the Kings of Spain , and Naples , also became Kings of Portugal . The House of Braganza brought numerous titles to the Portuguese Crown , including King of Brazil and then Emperor of Brazil .   After the demise of the Portuguese monarchy , in 1910 , Portugal almost restored its monarchy in a revolution known as the Monarchy of the North , though the attempted restoration only lasted a month before destruction . With Manuel II 's death , the Miguelist branch of the House of Braganza became the pretenders to the throne of Portugal . They have all been acclaimed King of Portugal by their monarchist groups .   The monarchs of Portugal all came from a single ancestor , Afonso I of Portugal , but direct lines have sometimes ended . This has led to a variety of royal houses coming to rule Portugal , though all having Portuguese royal lineage . These houses are :   The House of Burgundy -LRB- 1139 -- 1383 -RRB-  The House of Aviz -LRB- 1385 -- 1581 -RRB-  The House of Habsburg -LRB- 1581 -- 1640 -RRB-  The House of Braganza -LRB- 1640 -- 1910 -RRB- 
The Kingdom of the Algarve -LRB- Portuguese : Reino do Algarve , from the Arabic Gharb al-Andalus غرب الأندلس -RRB- , later the Kingdom of the Algarves -LRB- Portuguese : Reino dos Algarves -RRB- , was a nominal kingdom within the Kingdom of Portugal .   It was the second dominion of the Portuguese Crown and supposedly a kingdom apart from Portugal , though in fact the Algarvian kingdom had no institutions , special privileges , or autonomy .  In actuality , it was just an honorific title for the Algarve based on its history and was very similar to the rest of the Portuguese provinces .   The title King of Silves was first used by Sancho I of Portugal after the first conquest of Silves in 1189 . As this conquest did not take all of the Algarve , Sancho never used the title King of Portugal and the Algarve , but instead it was adopted by his grandson Afonso III of Portugal as a part of the titles and honours of the Portuguese Crown . 