Lisa Nicole Lopes -LRB- May 27 , 1971 -- April 25 , 2002 -RRB- , better known by her stage name Left Eye , was an American hip hop singer , rapper , actress , songwriter and producer . She rose to fame in the early 1990s as one-third of the girl group TLC , alongside Tionne `` T-Boz '' Watkins and Rozonda `` Chilli '' Thomas . Besides rapping and singing background vocals on TLC recordings , Lopes was one of the creative forces behind the group . She received more cowriting credits than the other members . She also designed the outfits and stage for the group and brought concepts to the group image , album titles , artworks and music videos . Through her work with TLC , Lopes won four Grammy Awards .   During her short solo career , Lopes scored two US top-ten singles with `` Not Tonight '' and `` U Know What 's Up '' , as well as one UK number-one single with `` Never Be the Same Again '' . She also produced the girl group Blaque , who scored a platinum album and two US top-ten hits . Lopes remains the only member of TLC to have released a solo album .   On April 25 , 2002 , Lopes was killed in a car accident while on a retreat with her sister and others . She swerved off the road to avoid hitting another vehicle and was thrown from her vehicle and died instantly . The last days of her life were made into a documentary called The Last Days of Left Eye , which aired on VH1 in May 2007 . 
TLC is an American girl group whose original line-up consisted of Tionne `` T-Boz '' Watkins , Lisa `` Left Eye '' Lopes and Rozonda `` Chilli '' Thomas . Formed in Atlanta , Georgia in 1991 , the group was very successful during the 1990s and early 2000s in spite of numerous spats with the law , each other , and the group 's record label and management . They scored nine top-ten hits on the Billboard Hot 100 , including four number-one singles `` Creep '' , `` Waterfalls '' , `` No Scrubs '' , and `` Unpretty '' . The group also recorded four multi-platinum albums , including CrazySexyCool -LRB- 1994 -RRB- which still remains the only album by a female group to receive a diamond certification from the Recording Industry Association of America -LRB- RIAA -RRB- . TLC also became the first R&B group in history to receive Million certification from the Recording Industry Association of Japan -LRB- RIAJ -RRB- for FanMail -LRB- 1999 -RRB- .   Having sold over 65 million records worldwide , TLC is the best-selling American girl group and second worldwide to the English group Spice Girls . VH1 ranked TLC as the greatest female group , placing them at number 12 on the list of 100 Greatest Women in Music . Billboard magazine ranked TLC as one of the greatest musical trios , as well as the seventh most successful act of the 1990s . The group 's accolades include four career Grammy Awards , five MTV Video Music Awards and five Soul Train Music Awards . Twenty years after their debut , TLC was honored with Outstanding Contribution to Music at the 17th MOBO Awards and Legend Award at the 2013 MTV Video Music Awards Japan . All three members of TLC are considered irreplaceable by the other members , and each of them have contributed equally to the group . Following Lopes ' death in 2002 , instead of replacing her , the remaining members chose to carry on as a duo . On June 30 , 2017 , they will release their final album as TLC , but have clarified that they will not split up following the album 's release and will continue to perform together . 