Brian Peter George St John le Baptiste de la Salle Eno , RDI -LRB- -LSB- ˈiːnoʊ -RSB- born 15 May 1948 and originally christened Brian Peter George Eno -RRB- is an English musician , composer , record producer , singer , writer , and visual artist . He is best known for his pioneering work in rock , ambient , pop , and electronic music . A self-described `` non-musician '' , Eno has helped to introduce a variety of unique conceptual approaches and recording techniques into contemporary music , advocating a methodology of `` theory over practice '' throughout his career . He has been described as one of popular music 's most influential and innovative figures .   Born in Suffolk , Eno studied painting and experimental music at art school in the late 1960s before joining glam rock group Roxy Music as synthesizer player in 1971 . After recording two albums with the band , he departed in 1973 to record a number of solo albums , contributing to and ultimately coining the concept of ambient music with works such as Another Green World -LRB- 1975 -RRB- , Discreet Music -LRB- 1975 -RRB- , and Music for Airports -LRB- 1978 -RRB- . He took part in frequent collaborations with artists such as Robert Fripp , Harold Budd , Cluster , David Bowie on his `` Berlin Trilogy '' , and David Byrne on 1981 's My Life in the Bush of Ghosts . During the 1970s , Eno would also begin a parallel career as a producer , which included work on albums by Talking Heads and Devo , the no wave compilation No New York -LRB- 1978 -RRB- , and recordings by avant-garde artists such as John Cale , Jon Hassell , Laraaji , and Harold Budd , among others .   In subsequent decades , Eno continued to record solo albums , collaborate , and produce for other artists , including U2 , Coldplay , Laurie Anderson , James , Grace Jones , and Slowdive . Dating back to his time as a student , he has also pursued a variety of multimedia projects in parallel with his music career , including sound installations and his mid-70s co-development of Oblique Strategies , a deck of cards featuring cryptic aphorisms  intended to spur creative thinking . He continues to release music , produce , and write , and maintains a regular column in Prospect Magazine . 
Roxy Music were an English rock band formed in 1971 by Bryan Ferry , who became the band 's lead vocalist and chief songwriter , and bassist Graham Simpson . Alongside Ferry , the other longtime members were Phil Manzanera -LRB- guitar -RRB- , Andy Mackay -LRB- saxophone and oboe -RRB- and Paul Thompson -LRB- drums and percussion -RRB- , and other former members include Brian Eno -LRB- synthesizer and `` treatments '' -RRB- , Eddie Jobson -LRB- synthesiser and violin -RRB- , and John Gustafson -LRB- bass -RRB- . Although the band took a break from group activities in 1976 and again in 1983 , they reunited for a concert tour in 2001 , and toured together intermittently between that time and their break-up in 2011 . Ferry frequently enlisted members of Roxy Music as session musicians for his solo releases .   Roxy Music became a successful act in Europe and Australia during the 1970s . This success began with their debut album , Roxy Music -LRB- 1972 -RRB- . The band pioneered more musically sophisticated elements of glam rock while significantly influencing early English punk music . It is understood that the band provided a model for many new wave acts while innovating elements of electronic composition . The band distinguished their visual and musical sophistication through a preoccupation with glamorous fashions . Ferry and co-founding member Eno had had influential solo careers . The latter became one of Britian 's most significant record producers of the late 20th centuries . Rolling Stone ranked Roxy Music No. 98 on its `` The Immortals -- 100 The Greatest Artists of All Time '' list .   The band 's final studio album was Avalon -LRB- 1982 -RRB- , which became platinum-certified in the United States . In 2005 they began recording a new studio album , which would have been their ninth , and would have been their first record since 1973 with Brian Eno , who wrote two songs for it and also played keyboards . However , Bryan Ferry eventually confirmed that material from these sessions would be released as a Ferry solo album , with Eno playing on `` a couple of tracks '' , and that he does n't think they 'll ever record as Roxy Music again . The album ultimately became Ferry 's 2010 album Olympia . Roxy Music played a series of 40th anniversary shows in 2011 , but has since become inactive as a performing entity . 