Haiti -LRB- -LSB- ˈheɪti -RSB- Haïti -LSB- a.iti -RSB- Ayiti -LSB- ajiti -RSB- -RRB- , officially the Republic of Haiti and formerly called Hayti , is a country located on the island of Hispaniola in the Greater Antilles archipelago of the Caribbean Sea . It occupies the western three-eighths of the island , which it shares with the Dominican Republic . Haiti is 27750 km2 in size and has an estimated 10.6 million people , making it the most populous country in the Caribbean Community -LRB- CARICOM -RRB- and the second-most populous country in the Caribbean as a whole .   The region was originally inhabited by the indigenous Taíno people . Spain discovered the island on 5 December 1492 during the first voyage of Christopher Columbus across the Atlantic . When Columbus initially landed in Haiti , he had thought he had found India or Asia . On Christmas Day 1492 , Columbus ' flagship the Santa Maria ran aground north of what is now Limonade . As a consequence , Columbus ordered his men to salvage what they could from the ship , and he created the first European settlement in the Americas , naming it La Navidad after the day the ship was destroyed .   The island was named La Española and claimed by Spain , which ruled until the early 17th century . Competing claims and settlements by the French led to the western portion of the island being ceded to France , which named it Saint-Domingue . The development of sugarcane plantations , worked by slaves brought from Africa , led to the colony being among the most lucrative in the world .   In the midst of the French Revolution -LRB- 1789 -- 1799 -RRB- , slaves and free people of colour revolted in the Haitian Revolution -LRB- 1791 -- 1804 -RRB- , culminating in the abolition of slavery and the defeat of Napoleon Bonaparte 's army at the Battle of Vertières . Afterward the sovereign nation of Haiti was established on 1 January 1804 the first independent nation of Latin America and the Caribbean , the second republic in the Americas , the only nation in the western hemisphere to have defeated three European superpowers -LRB- France , Spain , and the UK -RRB- , and the only nation in the world established as a result of a successful slave revolt . The rebellion that began in 1791 was led by a former slave and the first black general of the French Army , Toussaint Louverture , whose military genius and political acumen transformed an entire society of slaves into an independent country . Upon his death in a prison in France , he was succeeded by his lieutenant , Jean-Jacques Dessalines , who declared Haiti 's sovereignty and later became the first Emperor of Haiti , Jacques I . The Haitian Revolution lasted just over a dozen years ; and apart from Alexandre Pétion , the first President of the Republic , all the first leaders of government were former slaves . The Citadelle Laferrière is the largest fortress in the Americas . Henri Christophe former slave and first king of Haiti , Henri I built it to withstand a possible foreign attack .   It is a founding member of the United Nations , Organization of American States -LRB- OAS -RRB- , Association of Caribbean States , and the International Francophonie Organisation . In addition to CARICOM , it is a member of the International Monetary Fund , World Trade Organization , and the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States . It has the lowest Human Development Index in the Americas . Most recently , in February 2004 , a coup d'état originating in the north of the country forced the resignation and exile of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide . A provisional government took control with security provided by the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti -LRB- MINUSTAH -RRB- . 
The Dominican Republic -LRB- República Dominicana -LSB- reˈpuβlika ðominiˈkana -RSB- -RRB- is a sovereign state occupying the eastern five-eighths of the island of Hispaniola , in the Greater Antilles archipelago in the Caribbean region . The western three-eighths of the island is occupied by the nation of Haiti , making Hispaniola one of two Caribbean islands , along with Saint Martin , that are shared by two countries . The Dominican Republic is the second-largest Caribbean nation by area -LRB- after Cuba -RRB- at 48445 km2 , and 3rd by population with approximately 10 million people , of which approximately three million live in the metropolitan area of Santo Domingo , the capital city .   Christopher Columbus landed on the Western part of Hispaniola , in what is now Haiti , on December 6 , 1492 . The island became the first seat of Spanish colonial rule in the New World . The Dominican people declared independence in November 1821 but were forcefully annexed by their more powerful neighbor Haiti in February 1822 . After the 1844 victory in the Dominican War of Independence against Haitian rule the country fell again under Spanish colonial rule until the Dominican War of Restoration of 1865 .   The Dominican Republic experienced mostly internal strife -LRB- Second Republic -RRB- until 1916 . A United States occupation lasted eight years between 1916 and 1924 , and a subsequent calm and prosperous six-year period under Horacio Vásquez Lajara was followed by the dictatorship of Rafael Leónidas Trujillo Molina until 1961 . A civil war in 1965 , the country 's most recent , was ended by another U.S. military occupation and was followed by the authoritarian rule of Joaquín Balaguer from 1966 to 1978 . Since then , the Dominican Republic has moved toward representative democracy and has been led by Leonel Fernández for most of the time since 1996 . Danilo Medina , the Dominican Republic 's current president , succeeded Fernandez in 2012 , winning 51 % of the electoral vote over his opponent , ex-president Hipólito Mejía .   The Dominican Republic has the ninth-largest economy in Latin America and is the largest economy in the Caribbean and Central American region . Though long known for agriculture and mining , the economy is now dominated by services . Over the last two decades , the Dominican Republic have been standing out as one of the fastest-growing economies in the Americas -- with an average real GDP growth rate of 5.4 % between 1992 and 2014 . GDP growth in 2014 and 2015 reached 7.3 and 7.0 % , respectively , the highest in the Western Hemisphere . In the first half of 2016 the Dominican economy grew 7.4 % continuing its trend of rapid economic growth .   Recent growth has been driven by construction , manufacturing and tourism . Private consumption has been strong , as a result of low inflation -LRB- under 1 % on average in 2015 -RRB- , job creation , as well as high level of remittances . The Dominican Republic has a stock market , Bolsa de Valores de la Republica Dominicana -LRB- BVRD -RRB- . and advanced telecommunication system and transportation infrastructure . Nevertheless , unemployment , government corruption , and inconsistent electric service remain major Dominican problems . The country also has `` marked income inequality . '' International migration affects the Dominican Republic greatly , as it receives and sends large flows of migrants . Mass illegal Haitian immigration and the integration of Dominicans of Haitian descent are major issues . A large Dominican diaspora exists , mostly in the United States , contributes to development , sending billions of dollars to Dominican families in remittances .   The Dominican Republic is the most visited destination in the Caribbean . The year-round golf courses are major attractions . A geographically diverse nation , the Dominican Republic is home to both the Caribbean 's tallest mountain peak , Pico Duarte , as the Caribbean 's largest lake and point of lowest elevation , Lake Enriquillo . The island has an average temperature of 26 ° C and great climatic and biological diversity . The country is also the site of the first cathedral , castle , monastery , and fortress built in all of the Americas , located in Santo Domingo 's Colonial Zone , a World Heritage Site . Music and sport are of great importance in the Dominican culture , with Merengue and Bachata as the national dance and music , and baseball as the favorite sport . 