Arrested Development is an American television sitcom created by Mitchell Hurwitz , which originally aired on Fox for three seasons from November 2 , 2003 to February 10 , 2006 . A fourth season of 15 episodes was released on Netflix on May 26 , 2013 . The show follows the fictitious Bluth family , a formerly wealthy and habitually dysfunctional family . It is presented in a continuous format , incorporating handheld camera work and voice-over narration , as well as the use of occasional archival photos and historical footage . The show also utilizes several long-running `` Easter egg '' jokes throughout each season . Ron Howard serves as both an executive producer and the series ' uncredited narrator . Set in Newport Beach , California , Arrested Development was filmed primarily in Culver City and Marina del Rey .   After its debut in 2003 , the series received widespread critical acclaim , six Primetime Emmy Awards , and one Golden Globe Award , and has attracted a cult following , including several fan-based websites . In 2007 , Time listed the show among its `` All-TIME 100 TV Shows '' ; in 2008 , it was ranked 16th on Entertainment Weekly `` New TV Classics '' list . In 2011 , IGN named Arrested Development the `` funniest show of all time '' . Its humor has been cited as a key influence on later single-camera sitcoms such as 30 Rock and Community .   Despite critical acclaim , Arrested Development received low ratings and viewership on Fox , which canceled the series in 2006 . Rumors of an additional season and a feature film persisted until 2011 , when Netflix agreed to license new episodes and distribute them exclusively on its video streaming service . These episodes were later released in 2013 . Netflix has also commissioned a fifth season of Arrested Development which will premiere in 2018 . 
Culver City is a city in Los Angeles County , California . The city was named after its founder , Harry Culver . As of the 2010 census , the city had a population of 38,883 . It is mostly surrounded by the city of Los Angeles , but also shares a border with unincorporated areas of Los Angeles County . Over the years , it has annexed more than 40 pieces of adjoining land and now comprises about five square miles .   Since the 1920s , Culver City has been a center for motion picture and later television production , best known as the home of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer studios . From 1932 to 1985 , it was the headquarters for the Hughes Aircraft Company . National Public Radio West and Sony Pictures Entertainment have headquarters in the city . The NFL Network studio is also based in Culver City . 