Miley Ray Cyrus -LRB- born Destiny Hope Cyrus ; November 23 , 1992 -RRB- is an American singer , songwriter , and actress . After playing minor roles in the television series Doc and the film Big Fish in her childhood , she became a teen idol starring as the character Miley Stewart in the Disney Channel television series Hannah Montana in 2006 . Her father Billy Ray Cyrus also starred in the show . She subsequently signed a recording contract with Hollywood Records , and her debut studio album Meet Miley Cyrus -LRB- 2007 -RRB- was certified triple-platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America -LRB- RIAA -RRB- having shipped over three million units . She released her second album Breakout and launched her film career as a voice actress in the animated film Bolt in 2008 .   Cyrus starred in the feature film Hannah Montana : The Movie , and began cultivating a more mature image with her EP The Time of Our Lives in 2009 . In 2010 , she released her third album Ca n't Be Tamed , which stands as the lowest-selling record of her career , and starred in the coming-of-age film The Last Song . Cyrus focused on her acting career with several television and film appearances in 2011 and 2012 . Her sexually explicit behavior generated widespread controversy while promoting her fourth album Bangerz -LRB- 2013 -RRB- , her first under her recording contract with RCA Records . Cyrus ' independently-released fifth studio album Miley Cyrus & Her Dead Petz -LRB- 2015 -RRB- deviated from her traditional pop style for more psychedelic experimentation . In 2016 , she was a coach for the eleventh season of the singing competition series The Voice .   With Bangerz , Cyrus achieved her third number-one album on the U.S. Billboard 200 , and fifth overall including Hannah Montana soundtrack albums . She has logged eight top 10 entries on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 with : `` See You Again '' , `` 7 Things '' , `` The Climb '' , `` Party in the U.S.A. '' , `` Ca n't Be Tamed '' , `` We Ca n't Stop '' , `` Malibu '' and the chart-topping `` Wrecking Ball '' . Cyrus has earned numerous awards and nominations , as Billboard ranked her as the fourth best-selling female artist of 2009 . She was ranked number thirteen on Forbes Celebrity 100 in 2010 , and in 2013 was declared `` Artist of the Year '' by MTV . She has been included on the Time 100 list of most influential people in 2008 and 2014 . 
Hannah Montana 2 : Meet Miley Cyrus is a double album . It was released on June 26 , 2007 , by Walt Disney Records and Hollywood Records . The first disc serves as the soundtrack album from the second season of the television series Hannah Montana , while the second disc serves as the debut studio album by its primary by an actress Miley Cyrus . All twenty tracks are performed by Cyrus , although the first disc is credited to her character Hannah Montana . In the vein of the original soundtrack , Hannah Montana -LRB- 2006 -RRB- . The lyrical themes revolve largely around `` girl power '' , teen romance , and the double life that Cyrus ' character lives on the program .   Hannah Montana 2 : Meet Miley Cyrus debuted at number one on the US Billboard 200 , with first-week sales of 325,000 copies , and has since became certified quadruple-platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America -LRB- RIAA -RRB- for exceeding shipments of four million units . The album charted well on national record charts throughout Europe and Oceania , appearing in the top-twenty in several countries . The album received a multi-platinum certification in Canada , single-platinum certifications in Australia and Sweden , and gold certifications in Mexico , Spain , and the United Kingdom . As of April 2016 , the album managed to sell 9.8 millions copies worldwide .   `` Nobody 's Perfect '' was released as the only single from Hannah Montana 2 on May 15 , 2007 . The track peaked at number 27 on the US Billboard Hot 100 . `` See You Again '' was later released as the lead single from Meet Miley Cyrus . It reached number 10 on the Billboard Hot 100 , becoming Cyrus ' first single to enter the top ten on the chart . Its follow-up single `` Start All Over '' peaked at number 68 in the United States . The soundtrack was further promoted with Cyrus ' headlining Best of Both Worlds Tour . 
Hannah Montana 2 : Meet Miley Cyrus is a double album . It was released on June 26 , 2007 , by Walt Disney Records and Hollywood Records . The first disc serves as the soundtrack album from the second season of the television series Hannah Montana , while the second disc serves as the debut studio album by its primary by an actress Miley Cyrus . All twenty tracks are performed by Cyrus , although the first disc is credited to her character Hannah Montana . In the vein of the original soundtrack , Hannah Montana -LRB- 2006 -RRB- . The lyrical themes revolve largely around `` girl power '' , teen romance , and the double life that Cyrus ' character lives on the program .   Hannah Montana 2 : Meet Miley Cyrus debuted at number one on the US Billboard 200 , with first-week sales of 325,000 copies , and has since became certified quadruple-platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America -LRB- RIAA -RRB- for exceeding shipments of four million units . The album charted well on national record charts throughout Europe and Oceania , appearing in the top-twenty in several countries . The album received a multi-platinum certification in Canada , single-platinum certifications in Australia and Sweden , and gold certifications in Mexico , Spain , and the United Kingdom . As of April 2016 , the album managed to sell 9.8 millions copies worldwide .   `` Nobody 's Perfect '' was released as the only single from Hannah Montana 2 on May 15 , 2007 . The track peaked at number 27 on the US Billboard Hot 100 . `` See You Again '' was later released as the lead single from Meet Miley Cyrus . It reached number 10 on the Billboard Hot 100 , becoming Cyrus ' first single to enter the top ten on the chart . Its follow-up single `` Start All Over '' peaked at number 68 in the United States . The soundtrack was further promoted with Cyrus ' headlining Best of Both Worlds Tour . 
Hollywood Records is an American record label of the Disney Music Group , distributed by the Universal Music Group . The label focuses in pop , rock , alternative , hip hop , and country genres , as well as specializing in mature recordings not suitable for the flagship Walt Disney Records label . Founded in 1989 , its current roster includes artists such as Jordan Fisher , Zella Day , Demi Lovato , Queen , Zendaya , Ocean Park Standoff , Dreamers , Bea Miller , Martina Stoessel , Breaking Benjamin , Jorge Blanco , Sabrina Carpenter , R5 , The Young Wild , Olivia Holt , Sofia Carson , Forever in Your Mind , Grace Potter and the Nocturnals , Boy Epic , and Joywave . The label also releases Marvel Studios 's soundtrack and compilation albums in conjunction with Marvel Music . 
An album is a collection of audio recordings issued as a single item on CD , record , audio tape or another medium . Albums of recorded music were developed in the early 20th century , first as books of individual 78rpm records , then from 1948 as vinyl LP records played at rpm . Vinyl LPs are still issued , though in the 21st-century album sales have mostly focused on compact disc -LRB- CD -RRB- and MP3 formats . The audio cassette was a format used from the late 1970s through to the 1990s alongside vinyl .   An album may be recorded in a recording studio -LRB- fixed or mobile -RRB- , in a concert venue , at home , in the field , or a mix of places . The time frame for completely recording an album varies between a few hours to several years . This process usually requires several takes with different parts recorded separately , and then brought or `` mixed '' together . Recordings that are done in one take without overdubbing are termed `` live '' , even when done in a studio . Studios are built to absorb sound , eliminating reverberation , so as to assist in mixing different takes ; other locations , such as concert venues and some `` live rooms '' , allow for reverberation , which creates a `` live '' sound . The majority of studio recordings contain an abundance of editing , sound effects , voice adjustments , etc. . With modern recording technology , musicians can be recorded in separate rooms or at separate times while listening to the other parts using headphones ; with each part recorded as a separate track .   Album covers and liner notes are used , and sometimes additional information is provided , such as analysis of the recording , and lyrics or librettos . Historically , the term `` album '' was applied to a collection of various items housed in a book format . In musical usage the word was used for collections of short pieces of printed music from the early nineteenth century . Later , collections of related 78rpm records were bundled in book-like albums -LRB- one side of a 78 rpm record could hold only about 3.5 minutes of sound -RRB- . When long-playing records were introduced , a collection of pieces on a single record was called an album ; the word was extended to other recording media such as compact disc , MiniDisc , Compact audio cassette , and digital albums as they were introduced . 
In the United States , the Recording Industry Association of America -LRB- RIAA -RRB- awards certification based on the number of albums and singles sold through retail and other ancillary markets . Other countries have similar awards -LRB- see music recording sales certification -RRB- . Certification is not automatic ; for an award to be made , the record label must request certification . The audit is conducted against net shipments after returns -LRB- most often an artist 's royalty statement is used -RRB- , which includes albums sold directly to retailers and one-stops , direct-to-consumer sales -LRB- music clubs and mail order -RRB- and other outlets . 