Bangalore -LSB- bæŋɡəˈlɔːr -RSB- , officially known as Bengaluru -LRB- -LSB- ˈbeŋɡəɭuːɾu -RSB- -RRB- , is the capital of the Indian state of Karnataka . It has a population of about and a metropolitan population of about , making it the third most populous city and fifth most populous urban agglomeration in India . It is located in southern India on the Deccan Plateau . Its elevation is over 3000 ft above sea level , the highest of India 's major cities .   A succession of South Indian dynasties , the Western Gangas , the Cholas and the Hoysalas , ruled the present region of Bangalore until in 1537 CE , Kempé Gowdā -- a feudal ruler under the Vijayanagara Empire -- established a mud fort considered to be the foundation of modern Bangalore . In 1638 , the Marāthās conquered and ruled Bangalore for almost 50 years , after which the Mughals captured and sold the city to the Mysore Kingdom of the Wadiyar dynasty . It was captured by the British after victory in the Fourth Anglo-Mysore War -LRB- 1799 -RRB- , who returned administrative control of the city to the Maharaja of Mysore . The old city developed in the dominions of the Maharaja of Mysore and was made capital of the Princely State of Mysore , which existed as a nominally sovereign entity of the British Raj . In 1809 , the British shifted their cantonment to Bangalore , outside the old city , and a town grew up around it , which was governed as part of British India . Following India 's independence in 1947 , Bangalore became the capital of Mysore State , and remained capital when the new Indian state of Karnataka was formed in 1956 . The two urban settlements of Bangalore -- city and cantonment -- which had developed as independent entities merged into a single urban centre in 1949 . The existing Kannada name , Bengalūru , was declared the official name of the city in 2006 .   Bangalore is sometimes referred to as the `` Silicon Valley of India '' -LRB- or `` IT capital of India '' -RRB- because of its role as the nation 's leading information technology -LRB- IT -RRB- exporter . Indian technological organisations ISRO , Infosys , Wipro and HAL are headquartered in the city . A demographically diverse city , Bangalore is the second fastest-growing major metropolis in India . It is home to many educational and research institutions in India , such as Indian Institute of Science -LRB- IISc -RRB- , Indian Institute of Management -LRB- Bangalore -RRB- -LRB- IIMB -RRB- , National Institute of Fashion Technology , Bangalore , National Institute of Design , Bangalore -LRB- NID R&D Campus -RRB- , National Law School of India University -LRB- NLSIU -RRB- and National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences -LRB- NIMHANS -RRB- . Numerous state-owned aerospace and defence organisations , such as Bharat Electronics , Hindustan Aeronautics and National Aerospace Laboratories are located in the city . The city also houses the Kannada film industry . 
The Maratha Empire or the Maratha Confederacy was an Indian power that existed from 1674 to 1818 and ruled over much of the Indian sub-continent . The Marathas are credited to a large extent for ending the Mughal rule in India .   The Marathas are a Hindu warrior group from the western Deccan Plateau -LRB- present day Maharashtra -RRB- that rose to prominence by establishing a Hindavi Swarajya . The Marathas became prominent in the seventeenth century under the leadership of Shivaji who revolted against the Adil Shahi dynasty and the Mughal Empire and carved out a kingdom with Raigad as his capital . Known for their mobility , the Marathas were able to consolidate their territory during the Mughal -- Maratha Wars and later controlled a large part of India .   Chhattrapati Shahu , grandson of Shivaji , was released by Mughals after the death of Emperor Aurangzeb . Following a brief struggle with his aunt Tarabai , Shahu became ruler and appointed Balaji Vishwanath and later , his descendants , as the peshwas or prime ministers of the empire . Balaji and his descendants played a key role in expansion of Maratha rule . The empire at its peak stretched from Tamil Nadu in the south to Peshawar -LRB- modern-day Khyber Pakhtunkhwa , Pakistan -RRB- in the north , and Bengal and Andaman Islands in the east . In 1761 , the Maratha Army lost the Third Battle of Panipat to Ahmad Shah Abdali of the Afghan Durrani Empire which halted their imperial expansion into Afghanistan . Ten years after Panipat , the young Peshwa Madhavrao I 's Maratha Resurrection reinstated Maratha authority over North India .   In a bid to effectively manage the large empire , Madhavrao I gave semi-autonomy to the strongest of the knights , which created a confederacy of Maratha states . They became known as the Gaekwads of Baroda , the Holkars of Indore and Malwa , the Scindias of Gwalior and Ujjain , the Bhonsales of the Nagpur and the Puars of Dhar and Dewas . In 1775 , the East India Company intervened in a Peshwa family succession struggle in Pune , which became the First Anglo-Maratha War , resulting in the Maratha victory . The Marathas remained the preeminent power in India until their defeat in the Second and Third Anglo-Maratha Wars -LRB- 1805-1818 CE -RRB- which left the East India Company in control of most of India .   A large portion of the Maratha empire was coastline , which had been secured by the potent Maratha Navy under commanders such as Kanhoji Angre . He was very successful at keeping foreign naval ships , particularly of the Portuguese and British , at bay . Securing the coastal areas and building land-based fortifications were crucial aspects of the Maratha 's defensive strategy and regional military history . 