The Nile -LRB- النيل , Egyptian Arabic en-Nīl , Standard Arabic an-Nīl ; ⲫⲓⲁⲣⲱ , P -LRB- h -RRB- iaro ; Ancient Egyptian : Ḥ ` pī and Iteru ; Biblical Hebrew : יאור , Ye'or -RRB- is a major north-flowing river in northeastern Africa . It is generally regarded as the longest river in the world , however other conflicting sources cite a 2007 study that gave the title to the Amazon River in South America . The Nile , which is 6,853 km -LRB- 4,258 miles -RRB- long , is an `` international '' river as its drainage basin covers eleven countries , namely , Tanzania , Uganda , Rwanda , Burundi , Congo-Kinshasa , Kenya , Ethiopia , Eritrea , South Sudan , Sudan and Egypt . In particular , the Nile is the primary water source of Egypt and Sudan .   The Nile has two major tributaries , the White Nile and Blue Nile . The White Nile is considered to be the headwaters and primary stream of the Nile itself . The Blue Nile , however , is the source of most of the water and silt . The White Nile is longer and rises in the Great Lakes region of central Africa , with the most distant source still undetermined but located in either Rwanda or Burundi . It flows north through Tanzania , Lake Victoria , Uganda and South Sudan . The Blue Nile -LRB- ዓባይ , ʿĀbay -RRB- begins at Lake Tana in Ethiopia and flows into Sudan from the southeast . The two rivers meet just north of the Sudanese capital of Khartoum .   The northern section of the river flows north almost entirely through the Sudanese desert to Egypt , then ends in a large delta and flows into the Mediterranean Sea . Egyptian civilization and Sudanese kingdoms have depended on the river since ancient times . Most of the population and cities of Egypt lie along those parts of the Nile valley north of Aswan , and nearly all the cultural and historical sites of Ancient Egypt are found along riverbanks .   In the ancient Egyptian language , the Nile is called Ḥ ` pī or Iteru -LRB- Hapy -RRB- , meaning `` river '' . In Coptic , the words piaro -LRB- Sahidic -RRB- or phiaro -LRB- Bohairic -RRB- meaning `` the river '' -LRB- lit . p -LRB- h -RRB- . iar-o `` the.canal-great '' -RRB- come from the same ancient name .   The English name Nile and the Arabic names en-Nîl and an-Nîl both derive from the Latin Nilus and the Ancient Greek Νεῖλος . Beyond that , however , the etymology is disputed . One possible etymology derives it from a Semitic Nahal , meaning `` river '' . The standard English names `` White Nile '' and `` Blue Nile '' , to refer to the river 's source , derive from Arabic names formerly applied only to the Sudanese stretches which meet at Khartoum . 
A drainage basin or catchment area is any area of land where precipitation collects and drains off into a common outlet , such as into a river , bay , or other body of water . The drainage basin includes all the surface water from rain runoff , snowmelt , and nearby streams that run downslope towards the shared outlet , as well as the groundwater underneath the earth 's surface . Drainage basins connect into other drainage basins at lower elevations in a hierarchical pattern , with smaller sub-drainage basins , which in turn drain into another common outlet .   Other terms used to describe drainage basins are catchment , catchment basin , drainage area , river basin and water basin . In North America , the term watershed is commonly used to mean a drainage basin , though in other English-speaking countries , it is used only in its original sense , to mean a drainage divide , a ridge that separates adjacent drainage basins .   In closed -LRB- `` endorheic '' -RRB- drainage basins the water converges to a single point inside the basin , known as a sink , which may be a permanent lake , a dry lake , or a point where surface water is lost underground .   The drainage basin acts as a funnel by collecting all the water within the area covered by the basin and channelling it to a single point . Each drainage basin is separated topographically from adjacent basins by a perimeter , the drainage divide , making up a succession of higher geographical features -LRB- such as a ridge , hill or mountains -RRB- forming a barrier .   Drainage basins are similar but not identical to hydrologic units , which are drainage areas delineated so as to nest into a multi-level hierarchical drainage system . Hydrologic units are defined to allow multiple inlets , outlets , or sinks . In a strict sense , all drainage basins are hydrologic units but not all hydrologic units are drainage basins . 