The Swedish Empire -LRB- stormaktstiden , `` the era of great power '' -RRB- refers to the Kingdom of Sweden 's territorial control of much of the Baltic region during the 17th and early 18th centuries , a time when Sweden was one of the great European powers . The beginning of the Empire is usually taken as the reign of Gustavus Adolphus , who ascended the throne in 1611 , and the end as the loss of territories in 1721 following the Great Northern War . In Swedish history , the period is referred to as stormaktstiden , literally meaning `` the Great Power era '' .   After the death of Gustavus Adolphus in 1632 , the empire was , over lengthy periods , controlled by part of the high nobility , most prominently the Oxenstierna family , acting as tutors for minor regents . The interests of the high nobility contrasted with the uniformity policy -LRB- i.e. , the upholding of the traditional equality in status of the Swedish estates favoured by the kings and peasantry -RRB- . In territories acquired during the periods of de facto noble rule , serfdom was not abolished , and there was also a trend to set up respective estates in Sweden proper . The Great Reduction of 1680 put an end to these efforts of the nobility and required them to return estates once gained from the crown to the king . Serfdom , however , remained in force in the dominions acquired in the Holy Roman Empire and in Swedish Estonia , where a consequent application of the uniformity policy was hindered by the treaties by which they were gained .   After the victories in the Thirty Years ' War , the climax of the great power era was reached during the Second Northern War , when their primary adversary Denmark was neutralized by the Treaty of Roskilde in 1658 . However , in the further course of this war as well as in the subsequent Scanian War , Sweden was able to maintain her empire only with support of her closest ally , France . Charles XI of Sweden consolidated the empire and ensured a period of peace , before Russia , Saxony and Denmark started a concerted attack on his successor , Charles XII . After initial Swedish victories , Charles secured the empire for some time in the Peace of Travendal -LRB- 1700 -RRB- and the Treaty of Altranstädt -LRB- 1706 -RRB- , before the Battle of Poltava -LRB- 1709 -RRB- finally brought the great power era of Sweden to an end . 
Gustav II Adolf -LRB- 9 December 1594 -- 6 November 1632 , O.S. -RRB- ; widely known in English by his Latinised name Gustavus Adolphus or as Gustav II Adolph , was the King of Sweden from 1611 to 1632 and is credited as the founder of Sweden as a Great Power -LRB- Stormaktstiden -RRB- . He led Sweden to military supremacy during the Thirty Years ' War , helping to determine the political as well as the religious balance of power in Europe . He was formally and posthumously given the name Gustavus Adolphus the Great -LRB- Gustav Adolf den store , Gustavus Adolphus Magnus -RRB- by the Riksdag of the Estates in 1634 .   He is often regarded as one of the greatest military commanders of all time , with innovative use of combined arms . His most notable military victory was the Battle of Breitenfeld . With a superb military machine with good weapons , excellent training , and effective field artillery , backed by an efficient government which could provide necessary funds , Gustavus Adolphus was poised to make himself a major European leader , but he was killed a year later at the Battle of Lützen in 1632 . He was ably assisted in his efforts by Count Axel Oxenstierna , the Lord High Chancellor of Sweden , who also acted as regent after his death .   In an era characterized by almost endless warfare , he led his armies as king from 1611 -LRB- at age 16 -RRB- until his death in battle in 1632 while leading a charge . Sweden rose from the status of a mere regional power to one of the great powers of Europe and a model of early modern era government . Within only a few years of his accession , Sweden had become the largest nation in Europe after Russia , Spain and the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth . Some have called him the `` father of modern warfare '' , or the first great modern general . Under his tutelage , Sweden and the Protestant cause developed a number of excellent commanders , such as Lennart Torstensson , who would go on to defeat Sweden 's enemies and expand the boundaries and the power of the empire long after Gustavus Adolphus ' death in battle .   He was known by the epithets `` The Golden King '' and `` The Lion of the North '' by neighboring sovereigns . He made Sweden one of the great powers of Europe in part by reforming the administrative structure . For example , he began Parish registration of the population , so that the central government could more efficiently tax and conscript the people . Historian Christer Jorgensen argues that his achievement in the field of economic reform , trade , modernization , and the creation of the modern bureaucratic autocracy was as great as his exploits on the battlefields . His domestic reforms , which transformed a backward , almost medieval economy and society , were in fact not only the foundations for his victories in Germany , but also absolutely crucial for the creation and survival of the Swedish Empire . 