Liverpool Football Club -LRB- -LSB- ˈlɪvərpuːl -RSB- -RRB- is a professional association football club based in Liverpool , Merseyside , England . They compete in the Premier League , the top tier of English football . The club has won 5 European Cups , 3 UEFA Cups , 3 UEFA Super Cups , 18 League titles , 7 FA Cups , a record 8 League Cups , and 15 FA Community Shields .   The club was founded in 1892 and joined the Football League the following year . The club has played at Anfield since its formation . Liverpool established itself as a major force in both English and European football during the 1970s and 1980s when Bill Shankly and Bob Paisley led the club to 11 League titles and seven European trophies . Under the management of Rafa Benítez and captained by Steven Gerrard Liverpool became European champion for the fifth time , winning the 2005 UEFA Champions League Final against Milan in spite of being 3 -- 0 down at half time .   Liverpool was the ninth highest-earning football club in the world for 2014 -- 15 , with an annual revenue of $ 391 million , and the world 's eighth most valuable football club in 2016 , valued at $ 1.55 billion . The club holds many long-standing rivalries , most notably the North West Derby against Manchester United and the Merseyside derby with Everton .   The club 's supporters have been involved in two major tragedies . The first was the Heysel Stadium disaster in 1985 , where escaping fans were pressed against a collapsing wall in the Heysel Stadium , with 39 people -- mostly Italians and Juventus fans -- dying , after which English clubs were given a five-year ban from European competition . The second was the Hillsborough disaster in 1989 , where 96 Liverpool supporters died in a crush against perimeter fencing . The team changed from red shirts and white shorts to an all-red home strip in 1964 which has been used ever since . The club 's anthem is `` You 'll Never Walk Alone '' . 
William Shankly , OBE -LRB- 2 September 1913 -- 29 September 1981 -RRB- was a Scottish football player and manager , who is best known for his time as manager of Liverpool .   Shankly came from a small Scottish mining community as one of five brothers who played football professionally . He played as a ball-winning right-half and was capped twelve times for Scotland , including seven wartime internationals . He spent one season at Carlisle United before spending the rest of his career at Preston North End , with whom he won the FA Cup in 1938 . His playing career was interrupted by his service in the Royal Air Force during the Second World War . He became a manager after he retired from playing in 1949 , returning to Carlisle United . He later managed Grimsby Town , Workington and Huddersfield Town before moving to become Liverpool manager in December 1959 .   Shankly took charge of Liverpool when they were in the Second Division and rebuilt the team into a major force in English and European football . He led Liverpool to the Second Division Championship to gain promotion to the top-flight First Division in 1962 , before going on to win three First Division Championships , two FA Cups , four Charity Shields and one UEFA Cup . Shankly announced his surprise retirement from football a few weeks after Liverpool won the 1974 FA Cup Final , having managed the club for 15 years , and was succeeded by his long-time assistant Bob Paisley . He led the Liverpool team out for the last time at Wembley for the 1974 FA Charity Shield . He died seven years later at the age of 68 . 