Transformers : Age of Extinction is a 2014 American science fiction action film based on the Transformers franchise . It is the fourth installment of the live-action Transformers film series and a stand-alone sequel to 2011 's Transformers : Dark of the Moon , taking place five years after its events . Like its predecessors , it was directed by Michael Bay and written by Ehren Kruger , with Steven Spielberg and Bay as executive producers . It stars Mark Wahlberg , with Peter Cullen reprising his role as the voice of Optimus Prime , as the lead roles . It is the first film in the series to not feature the original human characters from the first three films , but features a new cast of human characters and many new Transformers including : the Dinobots , Lockdown , Stinger , Junkheap , Hound , Crosshairs and Drift . Returning Transformers include : Optimus Prime , Bumblebee , Ratchet , Leadfoot , Brains and Megatron -LRB- now known as Galvatron -RRB- . The film was released on June 27 , 2014 , in IMAX and 3D .   Transformers : Age of Extinction was panned by critics , many of whom considered it poorly directed , badly acted , and terribly written . According to Rotten Tomatoes , it is the worst reviewed film in the series , holding an 18 % approval rating . It also received seven nominations at the 35th Golden Raspberry Awards , including Worst Picture and Worst Prequel , Remake , Rip-off or Sequel , with Bay and Kelsey Grammer winning the awards for Worst Director and Worst Supporting Actor respectively . The film grossed over $ 1.104 billion worldwide , making it the highest-grossing film of 2014 , the second highest-grossing film in the Transformers series , the 19th film to gross over $ 1 billion , and the 16th highest-grossing film of all time . It was the only film to gross over $ 1 billion in 2014 .   A sequel , Transformers : The Last Knight , is set to be released on June 21 , 2017 , with Cullen , Tucci , and Wahlberg returning , and Bay directing . 
Mark Robert Michael Wahlberg -LRB- born June 5 , 1971 -RRB- is an American actor , producer , businessman , former model , and rapper . Wahlberg was known as Marky Mark in his early career as frontman for the group Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch , releasing the albums Music for the People and You Got ta Believe . Wahlberg later transitioned to acting , appearing in films such as the drama Boogie Nights and the satirical war comedy-drama Three Kings during the 1990s . In the 2000s , he starred in the biographical disaster drama The Perfect Storm , the science fiction film Planet of the Apes , the heist film The Italian Job , and the Martin Scorsese-directed neo-noir crime drama The Departed , for which he received an Academy Award nomination for Best Supporting Actor . In the 2010s , he starred in the action comedy The Other Guys alongside Will Ferrell , the biographical sports drama The Fighter -LRB- for which he earned an Academy Award nomination as a producer for Best Picture -RRB- , the comedy Ted , the war film Lone Survivor , the crime comedy Pain & Gain , the science fiction action film Transformers : Age of Extinction , the disaster film Deepwater Horizon , and the thriller Patriots Day .   Wahlberg has also served as executive producer of four HBO series : the comedy-drama Entourage -LRB- 2004 -- 11 -RRB- , the period crime drama Boardwalk Empire -LRB- 2009 -- 14 -RRB- , the comedy-dramas How to Make It in America -LRB- 2010 -- 11 -RRB- and Ballers -LRB- 2015 -- present -RRB- . He is co-owner of the Wahlburgers chain and co-stars in the reality TV series about it . Wahlberg received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame on July 29 , 2010 . He is known for his `` tough guy '' action persona , frequently portraying police officers , military personnel , or criminals in his films . He is also known for his collaborations with directors David O. Russell , Michael Bay , and Peter Berg . 