Roger Federer -LRB- born 8 August 1981 -RRB- is a Swiss professional tennis player . Many players and analysts have called him the greatest male tennis player of all time . Federer turned professional in 1998 and was continuously ranked in the top 10 from October 2002 to November 2016 . He is currently ranked world No. 5 by the Association of Tennis Professionals -LRB- ATP -RRB- .   Federer has won 18 Grand Slam singles titles , the most in history for a male tennis player , and held the No. 1 spot in the ATP rankings for a record 237 consecutive weeks and a record total of 302 weeks . In majors , Federer has won seven Wimbledon titles , five Australian Open titles , five US Open titles and one French Open title . He is among the eight men to capture a career Grand Slam . He has reached a record 28 men 's singles Grand Slam finals , including 10 in a row from the 2005 Wimbledon Championships to the 2007 US Open .   Federer 's ATP tournament records include winning a record six ATP World Tour Finals and playing in the finals at all nine ATP Masters 1000 tournaments . He also won the Olympic gold medal in doubles with his compatriot Stan Wawrinka at the 2008 Summer Olympic Games and the Olympic silver medal in singles at the 2012 Summer Olympic Games . Representing Switzerland , he was a part of the 2014 winning Davis Cup team . He was named the Laureus World Sportsman of the Year for a record four consecutive years from 2005 to 2008 . 
Tennis is a racket sport that can be played individually against a single opponent -LRB- singles -RRB- or between two teams of two players each -LRB- doubles -RRB- . Each player uses a tennis racket that is strung with cord to strike a hollow rubber ball covered with felt over or around a net and into the opponent 's court . The object of the game is to play the ball in such a way that the opponent is not able to play a valid return . The player who is unable to return the ball will not gain a point , while the opposite player will .   Tennis is an Olympic sport and is played at all levels of society and at all ages . The sport can be played by anyone who can hold a racket , including wheelchair users . The modern game of tennis originated in Birmingham , England , in the late 19th century as `` lawn tennis '' . It had close connections both to various field -LRB- `` lawn '' -RRB- games such as croquet and bowls as well as to the older racket sport of real tennis . During most of the 19th century , in fact , the term `` tennis '' referred to real tennis , not lawn tennis : for example , in Disraeli 's novel Sybil -LRB- 1845 -RRB- , Lord Eugene De Vere announces that he will `` go down to Hampton Court and play tennis . ''   The rules of tennis have changed little since the 1890s . Two exceptions are that from 1908 to 1961 the server had to keep one foot on the ground at all times , and the adoption of the tiebreak in the 1970s . A recent addition to professional tennis has been the adoption of electronic review technology coupled with a point challenge system , which allows a player to contest the line call of a point , a system known as Hawk-Eye .   Tennis is played by millions of recreational players and is also a popular worldwide spectator sport . The four Grand Slam tournaments -LRB- also referred to as the `` Majors '' -RRB- are especially popular : the Australian Open played on hard courts , the French Open played on red clay courts , Wimbledon played on grass courts , and the US Open played also on hard courts . 