Robert John Downey Jr. -LRB- born April 4 , 1965 -RRB- is an American actor . His career has included critical and popular success in his youth , followed by a period of substance abuse and legal troubles , and a resurgence of commercial success in middle age . For three consecutive years from 2012 to 2015 , Downey has topped the Forbes list of Hollywood 's highest-paid actors , making an estimated $ 80 million in earnings between June 2014 and June 2015 .   Making his acting debut at the age of five , appearing in his father 's film Pound -LRB- 1970 -RRB- , Downey Jr. appeared in roles associated with the Brat Pack , such as the teen sci-fi comedy Weird Science -LRB- 1985 -RRB- and the drama Less Than Zero -LRB- 1987 -RRB- . He starred as the title character in the 1992 film Chaplin , which earned him a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Actor and won him the BAFTA Award for Best Actor in a Leading Role . After being released in 2000 from the California Substance Abuse Treatment Facility and State Prison where he was on drug charges , Downey joined the cast of the TV series Ally McBeal playing Calista Flockhart 's love interest . This earned him a Golden Globe Award . His character was written out when Downey was fired after two drug arrests in late 2000 and early 2001 . After his last stay in a court-ordered drug treatment program , Downey achieved sobriety .   Downey Jr. 's career prospects improved when he featured in the mystery thriller Zodiac -LRB- 2007 -RRB- , and the satirical action comedy Tropic Thunder -LRB- 2008 -RRB- ; for the latter he was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor . Beginning in 2008 , Downey began portraying the role of Marvel Comics superhero Iron Man in the Marvel Cinematic Universe , appearing in several films as either the lead role , member of an ensemble cast , or in a cameo . Each of these films has grossed over $ 500 million at the box office worldwide ; four of theseThe Avengers , Avengers : Age of Ultron , Iron Man 3 and Captain America : Civil Warearned over $ 1 billion . Downey Jr. has also played the title character in Guy Ritchie 's Sherlock Holmes -LRB- 2009 -RRB- and its sequel -LRB- 2011 -RRB- . 
Sherlock Holmes : A Game of Shadows is a 2011 British-American period action mystery film directed by Guy Ritchie and produced by Joel Silver , Lionel Wigram , Susan Downey and Dan Lin . It is the sequel to the 2009 film Sherlock Holmes , and likewise features the Sherlock Holmes and Dr. John Watson characters created by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle . The film 's screenplay was written by Michele Mulroney and Kieran Mulroney . Robert Downey Jr. and Jude Law reprise their roles as Holmes and Watson , and were joined by Noomi Rapace as Simza , Stephen Fry as Mycroft Holmes and Jared Harris as Professor Moriarty . The film follows an original premise incorporating elements of Conan Doyle 's short stories `` The Final Problem '' and `` The Empty House '' . In the film , Holmes and Watson travel across Europe with a Gypsy adventuress to foil an intricate plot by their cunning nemesis , Professor Moriarty , to instigate a war .   Upon its release , the film received mixed to positive reviews from critics and was commercially successful , with a worldwide gross of over $ 545 million . 