Marilyn Manson is an American rock band formed by singer Marilyn Manson and guitarist Daisy Berkowitz in Fort Lauderdale , Florida , in 1989 . Originally named Marilyn Manson & the Spooky Kids , they gained a local cult following in South Florida in the early 1990s with their theatrical live performances . In 1993 , they were the first act signed to Trent Reznor 's Nothing Records label . Until 1996 , the name of each member was created by combining the first name of an iconic female sex symbol and the last name of an iconic serial killer , for example Marilyn Monroe and Charles Manson . Their lineup has changed between many of their album releases ; the current members of Marilyn Manson are the eponymous lead singer -LRB- the only remaining original member -RRB- , bassist Twiggy Ramirez , guitarists Paul Wiley and Tyler Bates , keyboardist/percussionist Daniel Fox , and drummer Gil Sharone .   In the past , band members dressed in outlandish makeup and costumes , and engaged in intentionally shocking behavior both onstage and off . Their lyrics often received criticism for their anti-religious sentiment and references to sex , violence and drugs , while their live performances were frequently called offensive and obscene . On several occasions , protests and petitions led to the group being blocked from performing , with at least three US states passing legislation banning the group from performing at state-owned venues . They released a number of platinum-selling albums , including Antichrist Superstar -LRB- 1996 -RRB- and Mechanical Animals -LRB- 1998 -RRB- . These albums , along with their highly-stylized music videos and worldwide touring , brought public recognition to Marilyn Manson . In 1999 , news media falsely blamed the band for influencing the perpetrators of the Columbine massacre .   As this controversy began to wane throughout the 2000s , so did the band 's mainstream popularity . Despite this , Jon Wiederhorn of MTV , in June 2003 , referred to Marilyn Manson as `` the only true artist today '' . Marilyn Manson is widely regarded as being one of the most iconic and controversial figures in heavy metal music , with the band and its lead singer influencing numerous other groups and musicians , both in metal-associated acts and also in wider popular culture . VH1 ranked Marilyn Manson as the seventy-eighth best rock band on their 100 Great Artists of Hard Rock . They were inducted into the Kerrang ! Hall of Fame in 2000 , and have been nominated for four Grammy Awards . In the US , the band has seen eight of its releases debut in the top ten , including two number-one albums . Marilyn Manson have sold in excess of 60 million records worldwide . 
Rock music is a genre of popular music that originated as `` rock and roll '' in the United States in the early 1950s , and developed into a range of different styles in the 1960s and later , particularly in the United Kingdom and the United States . It has its roots in 1940s and 1950s rock and roll , a style which drew heavily on the African-American genres of blues and rhythm and blues , and from country music . Rock music also drew strongly on a number of other genres such as electric blues and folk , and incorporated influences from jazz , classical and other musical styles . Musically , rock has centered on the electric guitar , usually as part of a rock group with electric bass and drums and one or more singers . Typically , rock is song-based music usually with a 4/4 time signature using a verse-chorus form , but the genre has become extremely diverse . Like pop music , lyrics often stress romantic love but also address a wide variety of other themes that are frequently social or political .   By the late 1960s `` classic rock '' period , a number of distinct rock music subgenres had emerged , including hybrids like blues rock , folk rock , country rock , raga rock , and jazz-rock , many of which contributed to the development of psychedelic rock , which was influenced by the countercultural psychedelic and hippie scene . New genres that emerged included progressive rock , which extended the artistic elements ; glam rock , which highlighted showmanship and visual style ; and the diverse and enduring subgenre of heavy metal , which emphasized volume , power , and speed . In the second half of the 1970s , punk rock reacted by producing stripped-down , energetic social and political critiques . Punk was an influence in the 1980s on new wave , post-punk and eventually alternative rock . From the 1990s alternative rock began to dominate rock music and break into the mainstream in the form of grunge , Britpop , and indie rock . Further fusion subgenres have since emerged , including pop punk , rap rock , and rap metal , as well as conscious attempts to revisit rock 's history , including the garage rock/post-punk and synth-pop revivals at the beginning of the 2000s -LRB- decade -RRB- .   Rock music has also embodied and served as the vehicle for cultural and social movements , leading to major subcultures including mods and rockers in the UK and the hippie counterculture that spread out from San Francisco in the US in the 1960s . Similarly , 1970s punk culture spawned the goth and emo subcultures . Inheriting the folk tradition of the protest song , rock music has been associated with political activism as well as changes in social attitudes to race , sex and drug use , and is often seen as an expression of youth revolt against adult consumerism and conformity . 