Judy Garland -LRB- born Frances Ethel Gumm ; June 10 , 1922 -- June 22 , 1969 -RRB- was an American singer , actress , and vaudevillian . She was renowned for her contralto vocals and attained international stardom that continued throughout a career spanning more than 40 years as an actress in musical and dramatic roles , as a recording artist , and on concert stages .   Garland began performing in vaudeville with her two older sisters and was signed to Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer as a teenager . She made more than two dozen films with MGM , including nine with Mickey Rooney . Garland 's most famous role was as Dorothy in The Wizard of Oz -LRB- 1939 -RRB- . Her other roles at MGM included Meet Me in St. Louis -LRB- 1944 -RRB- , The Harvey Girls -LRB- 1946 -RRB- and Easter Parade -LRB- 1948 -RRB- . After 15 years , she was released from the studio and made record-breaking concert appearances , a successful recording career , and her own Emmy-nominated television series . Film appearances became fewer in her later years , but included two Academy Award nominated performances in A Star Is Born -LRB- 1954 -RRB- and Judgment at Nuremberg -LRB- 1961 -RRB- .   Garland received a Golden Globe Award , a Juvenile Academy Award , and a Special Tony Award , and at 39 , became the youngest and first female recipient of the Cecil B. DeMille Award for lifetime achievement in the film industry . She was the first woman to win a Grammy for Album of the Year for her live recording of Judy at Carnegie Hall . In 1997 , Garland was posthumously awarded a Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award . Several of her recordings have been inducted into the Grammy Hall of Fame . In 1999 , the American Film Institute placed her among the 10 greatest female stars of classic American cinema .   From an early age , Garland struggled in her personal life . The pressures of adolescent stardom sent her to a psychiatrist at age 18 . Her self-image was influenced by film executives who said she was unattractive and manipulated her on-screen physical appearance . She was plagued by financial instability , often owing hundreds of thousands of dollars in back taxes . She married five times , with her first four marriages ending in divorce . She also had a long addiction with drugs and alcohol , which ultimately led to her death from a barbiturate overdose at the age of 47 . 
Judgment at Nuremberg is a 1961 American courtroom drama film directed by Stanley Kramer , written by Abby Mann and starring Spencer Tracy , Burt Lancaster , Richard Widmark , Maximilian Schell , Werner Klemperer , Marlene Dietrich , Judy Garland , William Shatner , and Montgomery Clift . Set in Nuremberg in 1948 , the film depicts a fictionalized version of the Judges ' Trial of 1947 , one of the twelve U.S. military tribunals during the Subsequent Nuremberg Trials .   The film centers on a military tribunal led by Chief Trial Judge Dan Haywood -LRB- Tracy -RRB- , before which four German judges and prosecutors -LRB- as compared to 16 defendants in the actual Judges ' Trial -RRB- stand accused of crimes against humanity for their involvement in atrocities committed under the Nazi regime . The film deals with non-combatant war crimes against a civilian population , the Holocaust , and examines the post-World War II geopolitical complexity of the actual Nuremberg Trials . An earlier version of the story was broadcast as a television episode of Playhouse 90 . Schell and Klemperer played the same roles in both productions .   In 2013 , Judgment at Nuremberg was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being `` culturally , historically , or aesthetically significant '' . 