The Fate of the Furious -LRB- alternatively known as Fast & Furious 8 and Fast 8 , and often stylized as F8 -RRB- is a 2017 American action film directed by F. Gary Gray and written by Chris Morgan . It is the eighth installment in The Fast and the Furious franchise . The film stars Vin Diesel , Dwayne Johnson , Jason Statham , Michelle Rodriguez , Tyrese Gibson , Chris ` Ludacris ' Bridges , Scott Eastwood , Nathalie Emmanuel , Elsa Pataky , Kurt Russell and Charlize Theron . The Fate of the Furious follows Dominic Toretto -LRB- Diesel -RRB- , who has settled down with his wife Letty -LRB- Rodriguez -RRB- , until cyberterrorist Cipher -LRB- Theron -RRB- coerces him into working for her and turns him against his team , forcing them to find Dom and take down Cipher .   The Fate of the Furious marks the first installment in the franchise since The Fast and the Furious : Tokyo Drift -LRB- 2006 -RRB- not to star both Paul Walker , who died in a single-vehicle crash on November 30 , 2013 while filming Furious 7 -LRB- 2015 -RRB- , and Jordana Brewster ; following script rewrites to the seventh installment after Walker 's death which completed the story arcs for both of their characters -LRB- Brian O'Conner and Mia Toretto , respectively -RRB- , both characters were retired .   Plans for an eighth installment were first announced in March 2015 when Diesel appeared on Jimmy Kimmel Live ! and announced that the film would be set in New York City . Preparations for the film began immediately after the release of Furious 7 , with Diesel , Morgan and producer Neal H. Moritz re-signing . After setting an initial release date in the same month , casting took place between April and June 2015 . In October 2015 , Gray was announced to direct the film in the place of James Wan , who had directed the previous installment . Principal photography began in March 2016 in locations such as Mývatn , Havana , Atlanta , Cleveland and New York City , continuing the franchise 's tradition of filming in exotic locations around the world .   The Fate of the Furious premiered on April 4 , 2017 in Berlin , and was theatrically released in the United States on April 14 , 2017 , playing in 3D , IMAX 3D and 4DX internationally . The film received mixed reviews from critics , who praised the action sequences and performances , while criticizing the storyline . The film has grossed over $ 1.2 billion worldwide , making it the thirtieth film -LRB- and the second in the franchise , after Furious 7 -RRB- to gross over $ 1 billion , the second highest-grossing film of 2017 and the eleventh highest-grossing film of all time . The film grossed $ 532 million worldwide during its opening weekend , setting the record for the highest-grossing opening of all time , ahead of Star Wars : The Force Awakens -LRB- $ 529 million -RRB- . A sequel is scheduled to be released on April 19 , 2019 . 
Berlin -LRB- -LSB- bəɹˈlɪn -RSB- , -LSB- bɛɐ̯ˈliːn -RSB- -RRB- is the capital and the largest city of Germany as well as one of its 16 constituent states . With a population of approximately 3.7 million , Berlin is the second most populous city proper and the seventh most populous urban area in the European Union . Located in northeastern Germany on the banks of the rivers Spree and Havel , it is the centre of the Berlin-Brandenburg Metropolitan Region , which has roughly 6 million residents from more than 180 nations . Due to its location in the European Plain , Berlin is influenced by a temperate seasonal climate . Around one-third of the city 's area is composed of forests , parks , gardens , rivers , canals and lakes .   First documented in the 13th century and situated at the crossing of two important historic trade routes , Berlin became the capital of the Margraviate of Brandenburg -LRB- 14171701 -RRB- , the Kingdom of Prussia -LRB- 1701 -- 1918 -RRB- , the German Empire -LRB- 1871 -- 1918 -RRB- , the Weimar Republic -LRB- 1919 -- 1933 -RRB- and the Third Reich -LRB- 1933 -- 1945 -RRB- . Berlin in the 1920s was the third largest municipality in the world . After World War II and its subsequent occupation by the victorious countries , the city was divided ; East Berlin was declared capital of East Germany , while West Berlin became a de facto West German exclave , surrounded by the Berlin Wall -LRB- 1961 -- 1989 -RRB- and East German territory . Following German reunification in 1990 , Berlin once again became the capital of all-Germany .   Berlin is a world city of culture , politics , media and science . Its economy is based on high-tech firms and the service sector , encompassing a diverse range of creative industries , research facilities , media corporations and convention venues . Berlin serves as a continental hub for air and rail traffic and has a highly complex public transportation network . The metropolis is a popular tourist destination . Significant industries also include IT , pharmaceuticals , biomedical engineering , clean tech , biotechnology , construction and electronics .   Modern Berlin is home to world renowned universities , orchestras , museums , entertainment venues and is host to many sporting events . Its urban setting has made it a sought-after location for international film productions . The city is well known for its festivals , diverse architecture , nightlife , contemporary arts and a high quality of living . Since the 2000s Berlin has seen the emergence of a cosmopolitan entrepreneurial scene . 