Amy Lou Adams -LRB- born August 20 , 1974 -RRB- is an American actress and singer . She was named one of 100 most influential people by Time magazine in 2014 and is among the highest-paid actresses in the world . She has won two Golden Globe Awards , and has been nominated for five Academy Awards and six British Academy Film Awards .   Adams began her career on stage performing in dinner theater and went on to make her feature film debut in Drop Dead Gorgeous -LRB- 1999 -RRB- . After moving to Los Angeles , she made several appearances on television and in B-movies , before starring in Steven Spielberg 's 2002 biopic Catch Me If You Can . Adams 's breakthrough role came in the 2005 independent film Junebug , in which her portrayal of a young pregnant woman earned her an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress nomination . In 2007 , she starred as a princess in the commercially successful Disney musical film Enchanted .   Adams received three more Oscar nominations for her supporting roles in Doubt -LRB- 2008 -RRB- , The Fighter -LRB- 2010 -RRB- , and The Master -LRB- 2012 -RRB- . She played reporter Lois Lane in the 2013 superhero film Man of Steel and a troubled con artist in David O. Russell 's film American Hustle ; for the latter , she won a Golden Globe Award and was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Actress . She won a second consecutive Golden Globe Award for portraying artist Margaret Keane in the comedy-drama Big Eyes -LRB- 2014 -RRB- . In 2016 , Adams reprised the role of Lois in Batman v Superman : Dawn of Justice , and garnered acclaim for her leading roles in the science-fiction film Arrival and the crime thriller Nocturnal Animals . 
American Hustle is a 2013 American black comedy-crime film directed by David O. Russell . It was written by Eric Warren Singer and Russell , inspired by the FBI ABSCAM operation of the late 1970s and early 1980s . It stars Christian Bale and Amy Adams as two con artists who are forced by an FBI agent -LRB- Bradley Cooper -RRB- to set up an elaborate sting operation on corrupt politicians , including the mayor of Camden , New Jersey -LRB- Jeremy Renner -RRB- . Jennifer Lawrence plays the unpredictable wife of Bale 's character . Principal photography on the film began on March 8 , 2013 , in Boston and Worcester , Massachusetts , and New York City .   American Hustle had its nationwide release in the United States on December 13 , 2013 . It opened to wide acclaim from critics , who praised its writing and ensemble cast . The film received ten nominations at the 86th Academy Awards , including Best Picture , Best Director , Best Original Screenplay , Best Actor -LRB- Bale -RRB- , Best Actress -LRB- Adams -RRB- , Best Supporting Actor -LRB- Cooper -RRB- , and Best Supporting Actress -LRB- Lawrence -RRB- , but did not win in any category . It received three BAFTA Awards , three Golden Globe Awards including Best Motion Picture -- Musical or Comedy , and the Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture . 