Kingdom Hearts III is an upcoming action role-playing game developed and published by Square Enix for the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One . It is the twelfth installment in the Kingdom Hearts series , sequel to Kingdom Hearts II , and the final chapter in the Dark Seeker saga . Set after the events of Kingdom Hearts 3D : Dream Drop Distance , returning protagonist Sora is joined by Donald Duck , Goofy , King Mickey and Riku in their search for the seven guardians of light and the `` Key to Return Hearts '' as they attempt to thwart Master Xehanort 's plan to bring about a second Keyblade War . Their journey has them cross paths with characters , and visit worlds , based on Disney properties and Final Fantasy .   Concepts for the game began as early as 2006 , after the release of Kingdom Hearts II : Final Mix in Japan , with the game not officially confirmed to be in development until E3 2013 , after years of rumors and speculation . Kingdom Hearts III sees many returning gameplay features from the series , while introducing new `` Attraction Flow '' attacks that incorporate Disney Parks attractions . The game also is the first in the series to utilize Unreal Engine 4 . 
is a series of crossover action role-playing games owned by Disney Interactive Studios and developed and published by Square Enix -LRB- originally by Square -RRB- . It is a collaboration between Disney Interactive and Square Enix , and is under the direction of Tetsuya Nomura , a longtime Square Enix character designer .   Kingdom Hearts is a crossover of various Disney settings based in a universe made specifically for the series . The series primarily centers on the main character Sora and his journey and experiences with various Disney , Final Fantasy and The World Ends with You characters , whilst stopping the various incarnations of the primary antagonist Xehanort throughout the series . All characters original to the Kingdom Hearts franchise are owned by The Walt Disney Company .   The series consists of eight games across multiple video game consoles , and future titles are planned . Most of the games in the series have been both critically acclaimed and commercially successful . As of October 2013 , the Kingdom Hearts series has sold over 25 million copies worldwide . A wide variety of related merchandise has been released along with the games , including soundtracks , figurines , companion books , novels and manga series . 