Performance is a 1970 British crime drama film directed by Donald Cammell and Nicolas Roeg , written by Cammell and photographed by Roeg . The film stars James Fox as a violent and ambitious London gangster who , after carrying out an unordered killing , goes into hiding at the home of a reclusive rock star -LRB- Mick Jagger of The Rolling Stones , in his film acting debut -RRB- .   The film was produced in 1968 but not released until 1970 due to the reluctance of Warner Bros. to distribute the film because of its graphic violent and sexual content . It initially received a mixed critical response but gained a cult following , and since then its reputation has grown in stature ; it is now regarded as one of the most influential and innovative films of the 1970s as well as in British cinema .   In 1999 , Performance was voted the 48th greatest British film of all time by the British Film Institute ; in 2008 Empire magazine ranked the film 182nd on its list of the 500 Greatest Movies of All Time . 
Sir Michael Philip `` Mick '' Jagger -LRB- born 26 July 1943 -RRB- is an English singer and songwriter , the lead singer and one of the founder members of the Rolling Stones .   Jagger 's career has spanned over 55 years , and he has been described as `` one of the most popular and influential frontmen in the history of rock & roll '' . Jagger 's distinctive voice and performance , along with Keith Richards ' guitar style , have been the trademark of the Rolling Stones throughout the career of the band . Jagger gained press notoriety for his admitted drug use and romantic involvements , and was often portrayed as a countercultural figure .   In the late 1960s , Jagger began acting in films -LRB- starting with Performance and Ned Kelly -RRB- , to mixed reception . In 1985 , he released his first solo album , She 's the Boss . In early 2009 , Jagger joined the electric supergroup SuperHeavy . In 1989 he was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame , and in 2004 into the UK Music Hall of Fame with the Rolling Stones . In 2003 , he was knighted for his services to popular music . 