The Secret Life of Us is a three-time silver Logie Award-winning Australian television drama series set in the beachside suburb of St Kilda , Melbourne , Australia . The series was produced by Southern Star Group and screened in Australia from 2001 to 2005 on Network Ten and on Channel 4 in the UK . Initially co-funded by the two networks , Channel 4 pulled out after the third series and the fourth series was not aired in the UK . It is primarily a drama with some comedic moments .   It has been shown in other countries such as New Zealand -LRB- TV3 -RRB- , Ireland -LRB- RTÉ Two -RRB- , Canada -LRB- SuperChannel3 -RRB- , the Netherlands -LRB- Yorin -RRB- , France -LRB- Canal Plus , France 4 -RRB- , Estonia -LRB- ETV , Kanal 11 -RRB- , Norway -LRB- NRK -RRB- , Serbia -LRB- B92 , TV Avala -RRB- , Russia -LRB- TNT , Muz TV -RRB- , Israel -LRB- Channel 2 -RRB- , and United States -LRB- Hulu -RRB- . 
Estonia -LRB- -LSB- ɛˈstoʊniə -RSB- Eesti -LSB- ˈeːsti -RSB- -RRB- , officially the Republic of Estonia -LRB- -LSB- Eesti Vabariik , links = no -RSB- -RRB- , is a country in the Baltic region of Northern Europe . It is bordered to the north by the Gulf of Finland , to the west by the Baltic Sea , to the south by Latvia -LRB- 343 km -RRB- , and to the east by Lake Peipus and Russia -LRB- 338.6 km -RRB- . Across the Baltic Sea lies Sweden in the west and Finland in the north . The territory of Estonia consists of a mainland and 2,222 islands and islets in the Baltic Sea , covering 45339 km2 of land and water , and is influenced by a humid continental climate .   The territory of Estonia has been inhabited since at least 6500 BC , with Finno-Ugric speakers -- the linguistic ancestors of modern Estonians -- arriving no later than around 1800 BC . Following centuries of successive German , Danish , Swedish , and Russian rule , Estonians experienced a national awakening that culminated in independence from the Russian Empire towards the end of World War I . During World War II , Estonia was occupied by the Soviet Union in 1940 , then by Nazi Germany a year later and was again annexed by the Soviets in 1944 , after which it was reconstituted as the Estonian Soviet Socialist Republic . In 1988 , during the Singing Revolution , the Estonian Supreme Soviet issued the Estonian Sovereignty Declaration in defiance of Soviet rule , and independence was restored on 20 August 1991 .   Estonia is a democratic parliamentary republic divided into fifteen counties . Its capital and largest city is Tallinn . With a population of 1.3 million , it is one of the least-populous member states of the European Union , Eurozone , North Atlantic Treaty Organization -LRB- NATO -RRB- , OECD and Schengen Area .   Ethnic Estonians are a Finnic people , sharing close cultural ties with their northern neighbour , Finland , and the official language , Estonian , is a Finno-Ugric language closely related to Finnish and the Sami languages , and distantly to Hungarian .   Estonia is a developed country with an advanced , high-income economy that is among the fastest growing in the EU . Its Human Development Index ranks very highly , and it performs favourably in measurements of economic freedom , civil liberties and press freedom -LRB- 3rd in the world in 2012 and 2007 -RRB- . The 2015 PISA test places Estonian high school students 3rd in the world , behind Singapore and Japan .   Citizens of Estonia are provided with universal health care , free education and the longest paid maternity leave in the OECD . Since independence the country has rapidly developed its IT sector , becoming one of the world 's most digitally advanced societies . In 2005 Estonia became the first nation to hold elections over the Internet , and in 2014 the first nation to provide E-residency . 
The Netherlands , -LRB- -LSB- ˈnɛðərləndz -RSB- Nederland -LSB- ˈneːdərˌlɑnt -RSB- ; Nederlân -RRB- also known informally as Holland , is the main constituent country of the Kingdom of the Netherlands . It is a densely populated country located in Western Europe with three island territories in the Caribbean.designated Bonaire , Sint Eustatius and Saba within ISO ISO 3166-1 . The European part of the Netherlands borders Germany to the east , Belgium to the south , and the North Sea to the northwest , sharing maritime borders with Belgium , the United Kingdom , and Germany .   The four largest cities in the Netherlands are Amsterdam , Rotterdam , The Hague and Utrecht -LRB- collectively known as G4 -RRB- . Amsterdam is the country 's capital , while The Hague holds the Dutch seat of parliament and government . The port of Rotterdam is the world 's largest port outside East-Asia , and the largest port in Europe . The name Holland is used informally to refer to the whole of the country of the Netherlands.Formally ` Holland ' refers only to two of the country 's twelve provinces : North Holland and South Holland .   `` Netherlands '' literally means `` lower countries '' , influenced by its low land and flat geography , with only about 50 % of its land exceeding one metre above sea level . Most of the areas below sea level are artificial . Since the late 16th century , large areas -LRB- polders -RRB- have been reclaimed from the sea and lakes , amounting to nearly 17 % of the country 's current land mass . With a population density of 412 people per km2 -- 507 -LRB- January 2017 -RRB- if water is excluded -- the Netherlands is classified as a very densely populated country . Only Bangladesh , South Korea , and Taiwan have both a larger population and higher population density . Nevertheless , the Netherlands is the world 's second-largest exporter of food and agricultural products , after the United States . This is partly due to the fertility of the soil and the mild climate . The Netherlands was the third country in the world to have an elected parliament , and since 1848 it has been governed as a parliamentary democracy and a constitutional monarchy , organised as a unitary state . The Netherlands has a long history of social tolerance and is generally regarded as a liberal country , having legalised abortion , prostitution and euthanasia , while maintaining a progressive drugs policy . In 2001 , it became the world 's first country to legalise same-sex marriage .   The Netherlands is a founding member of the EU , Eurozone , G-10 , NATO , OECD and WTO ; as well as being a part of the Schengen Area and the trilateral Benelux Union . The country is host to the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons and five international courts : the Permanent Court of Arbitration , the International Court of Justice , the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia , the International Criminal Court and the Special Tribunal for Lebanon . The first four are situated in The Hague , as is the EU 's criminal intelligence agency Europol and judicial co-operation agency Eurojust . This has led to the city being dubbed `` the world 's legal capital . '' The country also ranks second highest in the world 's 2016 Press Freedom Index , as published by Reporters Without Borders .   The Netherlands has a market-based mixed economy , ranking 17th of 177 countries according to the Index of Economic Freedom . It had the thirteenth-highest per capita income in the world in 2013 according to the International Monetary Fund . In 2013 , the United Nations World Happiness Report ranked the Netherlands as the seventh-happiest country in the world , reflecting its high quality of life . The Netherlands also ranks joint third highest in the Inequality-adjusted Human Development Index , along with Australia . 
Ireland -LRB- -LSB- ˈaɪərlənd -RSB- Éire -LSB- ˈeːɾʲə -RSB- -RRB- , also described as the Republic of Ireland -LRB- Poblacht na hÉireann -RRB- , is a sovereign state in north-western Europe occupying 26 of 32 counties of the island of Ireland . The capital and largest city is Dublin , which is located on the eastern part of the island , and whose metropolitan area is home to around a third of the country 's 4.75 million inhabitants . The state shares its only land border with Northern Ireland , a part of the United Kingdom . It is otherwise surrounded by the Atlantic Ocean , with the Celtic Sea to the south , Saint George 's Channel to the south-east , and the Irish Sea to the east . It is a unitary , parliamentary republic . The legislature , the Oireachtas , consists of a lower house , Dáil Éireann , an upper house , Seanad Éireann , and an elected President -LRB- Uachtarán -RRB- who serves as the largely ceremonial head of state , but with some important powers and duties . The head of government is the Taoiseach -LRB- Prime Minister , literally ` Chief ' , a title not used in English -RRB- , who is elected by the Dáil and appointed by the President ; the Taoiseach in turn appoints other government ministers .   The state was created as the Irish Free State in 1922 as a result of the Anglo-Irish Treaty . It had the status of dominion until 1937 when a new constitution was adopted , in which the state was named `` Ireland '' and effectively became a republic , with an elected non-executive president as head of state . It was officially declared a republic in 1949 , following the Republic of Ireland Act 1948 . Ireland became a member of the United Nations in December 1955 . It joined the European Economic Community -LRB- EEC -RRB- , the predecessor of the European Union , in 1973 . The state had no formal relations with Northern Ireland for most of the twentieth century , but during the 1980s and 1990s the British and Irish governments worked with the Northern Ireland parties towards a resolution to `` the Troubles '' . Since the signing of the Good Friday Agreement in 1998 , the Irish government and Northern Ireland Executive have co-operated on a number of policy areas under the North-South Ministerial Council created by the Agreement .   Ireland ranks among the top twenty-five wealthiest countries in the world in terms of GDP per capita , and as the tenth most prosperous country in the world according to The Legatum Prosperity Index 2015 . After joining the EEC , Ireland enacted a series of liberal economic policies that resulted in rapid economic growth . The country achieved considerable prosperity between the years of 1995 and 2007 , which became known as the Celtic Tiger period . This was halted by an unprecedented financial crisis that began in 2008 , in conjunction with the concurrent global economic crash . However , as the Irish economy was the fastest growing in the EU in 2015 , Ireland is again quickly ascending league tables comparing wealth and prosperity internationally . For example , in 2015 , Ireland was ranked as the joint sixth -LRB- with Germany -RRB- most developed country in the world by the United Nations Human Development Index . It also performs well in several national performance metrics , including freedom of the press , economic freedom and civil liberties . Ireland is a member of the European Union and is a founding member of the Council of Europe and the OECD . The Irish government has followed a policy of military neutrality through non-alignment since immediately prior to World War II and the country is consequently not a member of NATO , although it is a member in Partnership for Peace . 
Serbia -LRB- -LSB- ˈsɜrbiə -RSB- , Србија / Srbija , -LSB- sř̩bija -RSB- -RRB- , officially the Republic of Serbia -LRB- Република Србија / Republika Srbija -RRB- , is a landlocked sovereign state situated at the crossroads of Central and Southeast Europe , covering the southern part of the Pannonian Plain and the central Balkans . Serbia is situated along a number of cultural , geographic , and climatic crossroads . It borders Hungary to the north ; Romania and Bulgaria to the east ; Macedonia to the south ; and Croatia , Bosnia and Herzegovina , Montenegro to the southwest . It claims a border with Albania through the disputed territory of Kosovo . Serbia numbers around 7 million residents ; its capital , Belgrade , ranks among the oldest and largest cities in Southeast Europe .   Following the Slavic migrations to the Balkans postdating the 6th century , Serbs established several states in the early Middle Ages . The Serbian Kingdom obtained recognition by Rome and the Byzantine Empire in 1217 , reaching its peak in 1346 as a relatively short-lived Serbian Empire . By the mid-16th century , the entire modern-day Serbia was annexed by the Ottomans , at times interrupted by the Habsburg Empire , which started expanding towards Central Serbia from the end of the 17th century , while maintaining a foothold in modern-day Vojvodina . In the early 19th century , the Serbian Revolution established the nation-state as the region 's first constitutional monarchy , which subsequently expanded its territory . Following disastrous casualties in World War I , and the subsequent unification of the former Habsburg crownland of Vojvodina -LRB- and other territories -RRB- with Serbia , the country co-founded Yugoslavia with other South Slavic peoples , which would exist in various political formations until the Yugoslav Wars of the 1990s . During the breakup of Yugoslavia , Serbia formed a union with Montenegro which dissolved peacefully in 2006 , when Serbia reestablished its independence . In 2008 the parliament of the province of Kosovo unilaterally declared independence , with mixed responses from the international community .   Serbia is a member of numerous organizations such as the UN , CoE , OSCE , PfP , BSEC , and CEFTA . An EU membership candidate since 2012 , Serbia has been negotiating its EU accession since January 2014 . The country is acceding to the WTO and is a militarily neutral state . Serbia is an upper-middle income economy with dominant service sector , followed by the industrial sector and agriculture . The country ranks high on the Human Development Index -LRB- 66th -RRB- , Social Progress Index -LRB- 47th -RRB- as well as the Global Peace Index -LRB- 48th -RRB- . 