Canada -LRB- -LSB- ˈkænədə -RSB- -LSB- kanadɑ -RSB- -RRB- is a country in the northern part of North America . Its ten provinces and three territories extend from the Atlantic to the Pacific and northward into the Arctic Ocean , covering 9.98 e6km2 , making it the world 's second-largest country by total area and the fourth-largest country by land area . Canada 's border with the United States is the world 's longest binational land border . The majority of the country has a cold or severely cold winter climate , but southerly areas are warm in summer . Canada is sparsely populated , the majority of its land territory being dominated by forest and tundra and the Rocky Mountains . It is highly urbanized with 82 per cent of the 35.15 million people concentrated in large and medium-sized cities , many near the southern border . One third of the population lives in the three largest cities : Toronto , Montreal and Vancouver . Its capital is Ottawa , and other major urban areas include Calgary , Edmonton , Quebec City , Winnipeg and Hamilton .   Various aboriginal peoples had inhabited what is now Canada for thousands of years prior to European colonization . Beginning in the 16th century , British and French claims were made on the area , with the colony of Canada first being established by the French in 1535 during Jacques Cartier 's second voyage to New France . As a consequence of various conflicts , Great Britain gained and lost territories within British North America until it was left , in the late 18th century , with what mostly geographically comprises Canada today . Pursuant to the British North America Act , on July 1 , 1867 , the colonies of Canada , New Brunswick , and Nova Scotia joined to form the semi-autonomous federal Dominion of Canada . This began an accretion of provinces and territories to the mostly self-governing Dominion to the present ten provinces and three territories forming modern Canada .   In 1931 , Canada achieved near total independence from the United Kingdom with the Statute of Westminster 1931 , but at the time , Canada decided to allow the British Parliament to temporarily retain the power to amend Canada 's constitution , on request from the Parliament of Canada . With the Constitution Act 1982 , Canada took over that authority -LRB- as the conclusion of Patriation -RRB- , removing the last remaining ties of legal dependence on the Parliament of the United Kingdom , giving the country full sovereignty .   Canada is a federal parliamentary democracy and a constitutional monarchy , with Queen Elizabeth II being the head of state . The country is officially bilingual at the federal level . It is one of the world 's most ethnically diverse and multicultural nations , the product of large-scale immigration from many other countries . Its advanced economy is the eleventh largest in the world , relying chiefly upon its abundant natural resources and well-developed international trade networks . Canada 's long and complex relationship with the United States has had a significant impact on its economy and culture .   Canada is a developed country and has the tenth highest nominal per capita income globally as well as the ninth highest ranking in the Human Development Index . It ranks among the highest in international measurements of government transparency , civil liberties , quality of life , economic freedom , and education . Canada is a Commonwealth realm member of the Commonwealth of Nations , a member of the Francophonie , and part of several major international and intergovernmental institutions or groupings including the United Nations , the North Atlantic Treaty Organization , the G8 , the Group of Ten , the G20 , the North American Free Trade Agreement and the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum . 
The Constitution Act , 1982 -LRB- Schedule B of the Parliament of the United Kingdom 's Canada Act 1982 -RRB- is a part of the Constitution of Canada . The act was introduced as part of Canada 's process of patriating the constitution , introducing several amendments to the British North America Act , 1867 , and changing the latter 's name in Canada to the Constitution Act , 1867 .   This process was necessary because after the Statute of Westminster , 1931 , Canada decided to allow the British Parliament to temporarily retain the power to amend Canada 's constitution , on request from the Parliament of Canada . In 1982 , the Parliament of Canada requested that the Parliament of Great Britain remove that authority from the UK . The passing of the UK 's Canada Act , 1982 in March 1982 confirmed the Patriation of the Constitution . This UK Act replaced the British North America Act , transferring to Canada the power of amending its own Constitution .   On April 17 , 1982 , Queen Elizabeth II and Prime Minister Pierre Elliot Trudeau signed Canada 's Proclamation of the Constitution Act , 1982 . The proclamation confirmed that Canada had formally assumed authority over its constitution , the final step to full sovereignty . The Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms forms the first thirty-five sections -LRB- counting Section 16.1 and not counting Section 35 -RRB- of the Constitution Act , 1982 .   As of 2017 , the government of Quebec has never formally approved of the enactment of the act , though formal consent was never necessary . Nonetheless , it has remained a persistent political issue in Quebec . The Meech Lake and Charlottetown Accords were designed to secure approval from Quebec , but both efforts failed to do so . 