Pulp Fiction is a 1994 American black comedy neo-noir crime film written and directed by Quentin Tarantino , from a story by Tarantino and Roger Avary . Directed in a highly stylized manner , Pulp Fiction connects the intersecting storylines of Los Angeles mobsters , fringe players , small-time criminals , and a mysterious briefcase . The film 's title refers to the pulp magazines and hardboiled crime novels popular during the mid-20th century , known for their graphic violence and punchy dialogue .   The screenplay of Pulp Fiction was written in 1992 and 1993 , and incorporated some scenes originally written by Avary for True Romance . Its plot , as in many of Tarantino 's other works , is presented out of chronological order . The film is also self-referential from its opening moments , beginning with a title card that gives two dictionary definitions of `` pulp '' . Considerable screen time is devoted to monologues and casual conversations with eclectic dialogue revealing each character 's perspectives on several subjects , and the film features an ironic combination of humor and strong violence . Its script was reportedly turned down by Columbia TriStar as `` too demented '' . Miramax co-chairman Harvey Weinstein was instantly enthralled with it , however , and the film became the first that Miramax fully financed .   Pulp Fiction won the Palme d'Or at the 1994 Cannes Film Festival , and was a major critical and commercial success upon its U.S. release . It revitalized the careers of John Travolta -LRB- who received an Academy Award nomination -RRB- , Samuel L. Jackson , and Uma Thurman . It was also nominated for seven Oscars , including Best Picture ; Tarantino and Avary won for Best Original Screenplay . The nature of its development , marketing , and distribution -- and its consequent profitability -- had a sweeping effect on the field of independent cinema .   Since its release , Pulp Fiction has been widely regarded as Tarantino 's masterpiece , with particular praise singled out for its screenwriting . The film 's self-reflexivity , unconventional structure , and extensive use of homage and pastiche have led critics to describe it as a touchstone of postmodern film . It is often considered a cultural watershed , with a strong influence felt not only in later movies that adopted various elements of its style , but in several other media as well . A 2008 Entertainment Weekly poll named it the best film since 1983 , and the work has appeared on many critics ' lists of the greatest films ever made . In 2013 , Pulp Fiction was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being `` culturally , historically , or aesthetically significant '' . 
Quentin Jerome Tarantino -LRB- -LSB- ˌtærənˈtiːnoʊ -RSB- born March 27 , 1963 -RRB- is an American director , writer , and actor . His films are characterized by nonlinear storylines , satirical subject matter , an aestheticization of violence , extended scenes of dialogue , ensemble casts consisting of established and lesser-known performers , references to popular culture , soundtracks primarily containing songs and score pieces from the 1960s to the 1980s , and features of neo-noir film . He is widely considered one of the greatest filmmakers of his generation .   His career began in the late 1980s , when he wrote and directed My Best Friend 's Birthday , the screenplay of which formed the basis for True Romance . In the early 1990s , he began his career as an independent filmmaker with the release of Reservoir Dogs in 1992 ; regarded as a classic and cult hit , it was called the `` Greatest Independent Film of All Time '' by Empire . Its popularity was boosted by his second film , Pulp Fiction -LRB- 1994 -RRB- , a black comedy crime film that was a major success both among critics and audiences . Judged the greatest film from 1983 -- 2008 by Entertainment Weekly , many critics and scholars have named it one of the most significant works of modern cinema . For his next effort , Tarantino paid homage to the blaxploitation films of the 1970s with Jackie Brown -LRB- 1997 -RRB- , an adaptation of the novel Rum Punch .   Kill Bill , a highly stylized `` revenge flick '' in the cinematic traditions of Kung fu films , Japanese martial arts , Spaghetti Westerns and Italian horror , followed six years later , and was released as two films : Volume 1 in 2003 and Volume 2 in 2004 . Tarantino directed Death Proof -LRB- 2007 -RRB- as part of a double feature with friend Robert Rodriguez , under the collective title Grindhouse . His long-postponed Inglourious Basterds , which tells the fictional alternate history story of two plots to assassinate Nazi Germany 's political leadership , was released in 2009 to positive reviews . After that came 2012 's critically acclaimed Django Unchained , a Western film set in the antebellum era of the Deep South . It became the highest-grossing film of his career so far , making over $ 425 million at the box office . His eighth film , the mystery Western The Hateful Eight , was released in its roadshow version December 25 , 2015 , in 70 mm film format , complete with opening `` overture '' and halfway-point intermission , after the fashion of big-budget films of the 1960s and early 1970s .   Tarantino 's films have garnered both critical and commercial success . He has received many industry awards , including two Academy Awards , two Golden Globe Awards , two BAFTA Awards and the Palme d'Or , and has been nominated for an Emmy and a Grammy . He was named one of the 100 Most Influential People in the World by Time in 2005 . Filmmaker and historian Peter Bogdanovich has called him `` the single most influential director of his generation '' . In December 2015 , Tarantino received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame for his contributions to the film industry . 