The tenth series of the British science fiction television programme Doctor Who premiered on 15 April 2017 and is set to consist of twelve episodes , after it was released in July 2015 that BBC Worldwide had invested in a tenth series of the programme in its annual review . The series is led by head writer and executive producer Steven Moffat , alongside executive producer Brian Minchin . It is the third and final series overseen by the two as executive producers , as well as Moffat 's sixth and final series as head writer . This series is the tenth to air following the programme 's revival in 2005 , and is the thirty-sixth season overall .   Preceded by a Christmas special in December 2016 , `` The Return of Doctor Mysterio '' , the series is the third and final series starring Peter Capaldi as the Twelfth Doctor , an incarnation of the Doctor , an alien Time Lord who travels through time and space in his TARDIS , which appears to be a British police box on the outside ; Capaldi announced in January 2017 that he would be stepping down from the role after the tenth series . The series introduces Pearl Mackie as Bill Potts , the Doctor 's newest travelling companion , and also features Matt Lucas as Nardole , who appeared in the 2015 and 2016 Christmas specials .   Steven Moffat wrote four episodes for the series . Other returning writers who have worked on this series and previous ones include Frank Cottrell-Boyce , Sarah Dollard , Jamie Mathieson , Peter Harness , Toby Whithouse and Mark Gatiss , as well as two new writers for the revived era of the programme , Mike Bartlett and Rona Munro , the latter of whom wrote Survival , the final serial of the original classic era . Directors of the series included three who have previously worked on the show , and three brand new ones . Filming began on 20 June 2016 and lasted just over nine months , ending on 7 April 2017 . 
Steven William Moffat , OBE -LRB- -LSB- ˌstiːvən_ˈmɒfət -RSB- , born 18 November 1961 -RRB- is a Scottish television writer and producer , known for his work as showrunner , writer and executive producer of the British television series Doctor Who and Sherlock .   Moffat 's first television work was the teen drama series Press Gang . His first sitcom , Joking Apart , was inspired by the breakdown of his first marriage ; conversely , his later sitcom Coupling was based upon the development of his relationship with television producer Sue Vertue . In between the two relationship-centred shows , he wrote Chalk , a sitcom set in a comprehensive school inspired by his own experience as an English teacher .   A lifelong fan of Doctor Who , Moffat 's first work on the series was the script of the parody episode The Curse of Fatal Death , which aired in 1999 . He then wrote six episodes of the Doctor Who revival series under executive producer Russell T Davies -LRB- `` The Empty Child '' , `` The Doctor Dances '' -LSB- both 2005 -RSB- , `` The Girl in the Fireplace '' -LSB- 2006 -RSB- , `` Blink '' -LSB- 2007 -RSB- , `` Silence in the Library '' , and `` Forest of the Dead '' -LSB- both 2008 -RSB- -RRB- . In 2009 , he replaced Davies as showrunner , lead writer and executive producer , with his first series as executive producer airing from April 2010 . Sherlock , which Moffat co-created with Mark Gatiss , began airing in July 2010 . In January 2016 , it was announced that Moffat would step down from being showrunner of Doctor Who after the spring 2017 season finale , and that Broadchurch creator Chris Chibnall would take over . Moffat would also write and showrun the 2017 Christmas Special before handing over to Chibnall . Moffat also co-wrote the 2011 feature film The Adventures of Tintin : The Secret of the Unicorn .   Moffat has won several awards , mainly for Doctor Who and Sherlock , including two Emmy Awards , five BAFTA Awards and four Hugo Awards . 