Hot is the debut album by British pop singer Melanie B , released on 9 October 2000 by Virgin . The album was not as successful as her albums with the Spice Girls or that of other members solo albums released around this time . It peaked at number twenty-eight in United Kingdom and sold over 60,000 copies , receiving a silver certification . The album had four singles : `` I Want You Back '' , featuring Missy Elliott , `` Tell Me '' , `` Feels So Good '' and `` Lullaby '' . The first three singles reached top 5 in United Kingdom . The single `` Word Up '' , previously released on the soundtrack of the film Austin Powers : The Spy Who Shagged Me , was included on the Japanese version . The album received mixed to negative reviews from critics . 
Melanie Janine Brown -LRB- born 29 May 1975 -RRB- , better known as Mel B or Melanie B , is an English singer , songwriter , presenter , television personality , dancer , actress , author , and model . Brown rose to fame as a member of the girl group the Spice Girls , in which she became known as Scary Spice . Brown is also known for supporting girl power and earlier global tours , which grossed an estimated $ 500 -- 800 million between 1996 and 2000 .   Brown began her solo career when she released `` I Want You Back '' with Missy Elliott on Virgin Records . The single charted at number one on the UK Singles Chart , followed by the release of her debut album , Hot -LRB- 2000 -RRB- . The album also saw the release of two top 10 singles `` Tell Me '' and `` Feels So Good '' . L.A. State of Mind was Brown 's second studio album , released in 2005 on the independent label Amber Café , which saw the release of one single , `` Today '' in June that year . In mid-2012 , Brown announced a return to her solo recording career with the release of her third studio album by signing with EMI Music Australia . The scope of the deal with EMI office includes concessions for global partnering with EMI . The first single from the album , `` For Once in My Life '' was released in September 2013 , becoming Brown 's first record to be released after eight years .   Since 2000 , Brown has concentrated on a variety of non-singing projects . She became the presenter of shows such as This Is My Moment , Top of the Pops , Party in the Park and The All Star Animal Awards . In September 2007 , she became a contestant on the fifth season of the American dance competition , Dancing with the Stars ; in which she placed runner-up overall partnered with Maksim Chmerkovskiy . Brown returned to television work becoming a judge for the Australian version of The X Factor from 2011 to 2012 , replacing Kyle Sandilands and having previously been a celebrity mentor on the show in 2010 . In June 2012 , she was a guest judge during the Manchester auditions for the ninth series of The X Factor UK , as one of the temporary replacements for Kelly Rowland ; before the role eventually went to Nicole Scherzinger . She later joined The X Factor UK for its eleventh series in 2014 .   During this time she became the female co-host for Dancing with the Stars Australia , in which she hosted the twelfth season alongside Daniel MacPherson . However , Brown resigned from the show and did not return for the thirteenth season in 2013 . In February that year , she officially signed on to become one of the four judges for the variety talent show America 's Got Talent , replacing Sharon Osbourne from the eighth season onwards . On 1 February 2014 , she was revealed to be a coach on The Voice Kids in Australia , which aired in mid-2014 . 