Sarah Kate Silverman -LRB- born December 1 , 1970 -RRB- is an American stand-up comedian , actress , producer , and writer . Her comedy addresses social taboos and controversial topics , such as racism , sexism , and religion , having her comic character endorse them in a sarcastic fashion . For her work on television , she won two Primetime Emmy Awards .   Silverman was a writer and occasional performer on Saturday Night Live , and starred in and produced The Sarah Silverman Program , which ran from 2007 to 2010 on Comedy Central , for which she was nominated for a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Comedy Series . She released an autobiography The Bedwetter in 2010 . She also appeared in other television programs , such as Mr. Show and V.I.P. , and starred in films , including Who 's the Caboose ? -LRB- 1997 -RRB- , School of Rock -LRB- 2003 -RRB- , Wreck-It Ralph -LRB- 2012 -RRB- , and A Million Ways to Die in the West -LRB- 2014 -RRB- .   In 2015 , she starred in the drama I Smile Back , for which she was nominated for a Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Leading Role . 
Saturday Night Live -LRB- abbreviated as SNL -RRB- is an American late-night live television sketch comedy and variety show created by Lorne Michaels and developed by Dick Ebersol . The show premiered on NBC on October 11 , 1975 , under the original title NBC 's Saturday Night . The show 's comedy sketches , which parody contemporary culture and politics , are performed by a large and varying cast of repertory and newer cast members . Each episode is hosted by a celebrity guest -LRB- who usually delivers an opening monologue and performs in sketches with the cast -RRB- and features performances by a musical guest . An episode normally begins with a cold open sketch that ends with someone breaking character and proclaiming , `` Live from New York , it 's Saturday Night ! '' , properly beginning the show .   In 1980 , Michaels left the series to explore other opportunities . He was replaced by Jean Doumanian , who was replaced by Ebersol after a season of bad reviews . Ebersol ran the show until 1985 , when Michaels returned ; Michaels has remained since then . Many of SNLs cast found national stardom while appearing on the show , and achieved success in film and television , both in front of and behind the camera . Others associated with the show , such as writers , have gone on to successful careers creating , writing , or starring in TV and film .   Broadcast from Studio 8H at NBC 's headquarters in the Comcast Building , SNL has aired 829 episodes since its debut , and concluded its forty-second season on May 20 , 2017 , making it one of the longest-running network television programs in the United States . The show format has been developed and recreated in several countries , meeting with different levels of success . Successful sketches have seen life outside of the show as feature films , although only two met with critical and financial success : The Blues Brothers -LRB- 1980 -RRB- and Wayne 's World -LRB- 1992 -RRB- . The show has been marketed in other ways , including home media releases of `` best of '' and whole seasons , and books and documentaries about behind-the-scenes activities of running and developing the show .   Throughout four decades on air , Saturday Night Live has received a number of awards , including 50 Primetime Emmy Awards , two Peabody Awards , and three Writers Guild of America Awards . In 2000 , it was inducted into the National Association of Broadcasters Hall of Fame . It was ranked tenth in TV Guide `` 50 Greatest TV Shows of All Time '' list , and in 2007 it was listed as one of Time magazine 's `` 100 Best TV Shows of All-TIME '' . As of 2012 , it has received 156 Emmy nominations , the most received by any TV show . The live aspect of the show has resulted in several controversies and acts of censorship , with mistakes and intentional acts of sabotage by performers as well as guests . 