Shawn Peter Raul Mendes -LRB- -LSB- ˈmɛndɛz -RSB- , -LSB- ˈmẽdɨʃ -RSB- ; born August 8 , 1998 -RRB- is a Canadian singer and songwriter . He attracted a following in 2013 , when he began posting song covers on the video sharing application Vine . The following year , he caught the attention of artist managers Andrew Gertler and Island Records A&R Ziggy Chareton , which led to him signing a deal with the record label . Mendes went on to release an EP and his debut studio album Handwritten , whose single `` Stitches '' reached the top 10 in the US and Canada , and number one in the UK . His sophomore album , Illuminate -LRB- 2016 -RRB- , was preceded by the single `` Treat You Better '' . Both albums debuted atop the US Billboard 200 . 
Island Records is a British-American record label that operates as a division of Universal Music Group -LRB- UMG -RRB- . It was founded by Chris Blackwell , Graeme Goodall and Leslie Kong in Jamaica in 1959 . Blackwell sold the label to PolyGram in 1989 . Both Island and another label recently acquired by PolyGram , A&M Records , were both at the time the largest independent record labels in history , with Island in particular having exerted a major influence on the progressive UK music scene in the early 1970s .   Three Island labels exist in the world : Island UK , Island US , and Island Australia , with the main label operating out of London . Notable artists on the UK roster include Ariana Grande , U2 , Mumford & Sons , Amy Winehouse , Ben Howard , Florence + The Machine , John Newman , Hozier , Catfish and the Bottlemen , Disclosure , AlunaGeorge , Keane , James Morrison , Annie Lennox , That Poppy and PJ Harvey .   Current key people of Island Records include Island president Darcus Beese , OBE and MD Jon Turner . Partially due to the label 's significant legacy , Island remains one of UMG 's pre-eminent record labels . In a 50-year anniversary documentary , Island Records artist Melissa Etheridge stated : `` If you want to look at world music , music of the last fifty years that changed the world , you need look no further than Island Records . '' 