The Flash is a 1990 American television series developed by the writing team of Danny Bilson and Paul De Meo that aired on CBS . It is based on the DC Comics character Barry Allen / Flash , a costumed superhero crime-fighter with the power to move at superhuman speeds . The Flash starred John Wesley Shipp as Allen , along with Amanda Pays , Alex Désert , and Paula Marshall . It was the first-ever live-action portrayal of the DC superhero . 
The Flash -LRB- Barry Allen -RRB- is a fictional superhero appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics . Barry Allen is the second character to be known as the Flash .  The character first appeared in Showcase # 4 -LRB- October 1956 -RRB- , created by writer Robert Kanigher and penciler Carmine Infantino . His name combines talk show hosts Barry Gray and Steve Allen . Barry Allen is a reinvention of a previous character called The Flash that had appeared in 1940s comic books as the character Jay Garrick .   His power consists mainly of superhuman speed . Various other effects such as intangibility are also attributed to his ability to control the speed of molecular vibrations . The Flash wears a distinct red and gold costume treated to resist friction and wind resistance , traditionally storing the costume compressed inside a ring .   Barry 's classic stories introduced the concept of the Multiverse to DC Comics , and this concept played a large part in DC 's various continuity reboots over the years . The Flash has traditionally always had a significant role in DC 's major company-wide reboot stories , and in 1985 's crossover Crisis on Infinite Earths , Barry died saving the Multiverse , removing the character from the regular DC lineup for 23 years . His return to regular comics occurred subsequently in 2008 within the pages of Grant Morrison 's Final Crisis crossover story and Geoff Johns ' accompanying The Flash : Rebirth limited series . He has since played a pivotal role in the crossover stories Blackest Night -LRB- 2009 -RRB- , Flashpoint -LRB- 2011 -RRB- , Convergence -LRB- 2015 -RRB- , and DC Rebirth -LRB- 2016 -RRB- .   Allen has appeared in various adaptations in other media . John Wesley Shipp played the character in the 1990 CBS television series and Grant Gustin currently plays him in the 2014 The CW television series . The character is played by Ezra Miller in the DC Extended Universe , beginning with Batman v Superman : Dawn of Justice and Suicide Squad in 2016 , followed by Justice League in 2017 , and a standalone film in the future . 