Vitamin B12 , also called cobalamin , is a water-soluble vitamin that has a key role in the normal functioning of the brain and nervous system , and the formation of red blood cells . It is one of eight B vitamins . It is involved in the metabolism of every cell of the human body , especially affecting DNA synthesis , fatty acid and amino acid metabolism . No fungi , plants , or animals -LRB- including humans -RRB- are capable of producing vitamin B12 . Only bacteria and archaea have the enzymes needed for its synthesis . Some substantial sources of B12 include animal products -LRB- shellfish , meat -RRB- , fortified food products , and dietary supplements . B12 is the largest and most structurally complicated vitamin and can be produced industrially only through bacterial fermentation synthesis , typically used to manufacture B12 for fortified foods and supplements .   Vitamin B12 consists of a class of chemically related compounds -LRB- vitamers -RRB- , all of which show pharmacological activity . It contains the biochemically rare element cobalt -LRB- chemical symbol Co -RRB- positioned in the center of a planar tetra-pyrrole ring called a corrin ring . The vitamer is produced by bacteria as hydroxocobalamin , but conversion between different forms of the vitamin occurs in the body after consumption .   Vitamin B12 was discovered as a result of its relationship to the disease pernicious anemia , an autoimmune disease in which parietal cells of the stomach responsible for secreting intrinsic factor are destroyed ; these cells are also responsible for secreting acid in the stomach . Because intrinsic factor is crucial for the normal absorption of B12 , its lack in the presence of pernicious anemia causes a vitamin B12 deficiency . Many other subtler kinds of vitamin B12 deficiency and their biochemical effects have since been elucidated . Due to impairment of vitamin B12 absorption during aging , people over age 60 are at risk of deficiency . 
A vitamin is an organic compound and a vital nutrient that an organism requires in limited amounts . An organic chemical compound -LRB- or related set of compounds -RRB- is called a vitamin when the organism can not synthesize the compound in sufficient quantities , and it must be obtained through the diet ; thus , the term vitamin is conditional upon the circumstances and the particular organism . For example , ascorbic acid -LRB- one form of vitamin C -RRB- is a vitamin for humans , but not for most other animal organisms . Supplementation is important for the treatment of certain health problems , but there is little evidence of nutritional benefit when used by otherwise healthy people .   By convention the term vitamin does not include other essential nutrients , such as dietary minerals , essential fatty acids , essential amino acids -LRB- which are needed in greater amounts than vitamins -RRB- or the many other nutrients that promote health , and are required less often to maintain the health of the organism . Thirteen vitamins are universally recognized at present . Vitamins are classified by their biological and chemical activity , not their structure . Thus , each vitamin refers to a number of vitamer compounds that all show the biological activity associated with a particular vitamin . Such a set of chemicals is grouped under an alphabetized vitamin `` generic descriptor '' title , such as `` vitamin A '' , which includes the compounds retinal , retinol , and four known carotenoids . Vitamers by definition are convertible to the active form of the vitamin in the body , and are sometimes inter-convertible to one another , as well .   Vitamins have diverse biochemical functions . Some , such as vitamin D , have hormone-like functions as regulators of mineral metabolism , or regulators of cell and tissue growth and differentiation -LRB- such as some forms of vitamin A -RRB- . Others function as antioxidants -LRB- e.g. , vitamin E and sometimes vitamin C -RRB- . The largest number of vitamins , the B complex vitamins , function as enzyme cofactors -LRB- coenzymes -RRB- or the precursors for them ; coenzymes help enzymes in their work as catalysts in metabolism . In this role , vitamins may be tightly bound to enzymes as part of prosthetic groups : For example , biotin is part of enzymes involved in making fatty acids . They may also be less tightly bound to enzyme catalysts as coenzymes , detachable molecules that function to carry chemical groups or electrons between molecules . For example , folic acid may carry methyl , formyl , and methylene groups in the cell . Although these roles in assisting enzyme-substrate reactions are vitamins ' best-known function , the other vitamin functions are equally important .   Until the mid-1930s , when the first commercial yeast-extract vitamin B complex and semi-synthetic vitamin C supplement tablets were sold , vitamins were obtained solely through food intake , and changes in diet -LRB- which , for example , could occur during a particular growing season -RRB- usually greatly altered the types and amounts of vitamins ingested . However , vitamins have been produced as commodity chemicals and made widely available as inexpensive semisynthetic and synthetic-source multivitamin dietary and food supplements and additives , since the middle of the 20th century . Study of structural activity , function and their role in maintaining health is called vitaminology . 