Split is a 2016 American psychological horror-thriller film written and directed by M. Night Shyamalan . The film stars James McAvoy , Anya Taylor-Joy , and Betty Buckley , and follows Kevin Wendell Crumb , a man with 23 different personalities who kidnaps and imprisons three teenage girls in an isolated underground facility .   Principal photography began on November 11 , 2015 , in Philadelphia , Pennsylvania . The film premiered at Fantastic Fest on September 26 , 2016 , and was released in the United States on January 20 , 2017 , by Universal Pictures . The film received general acclaim , with some critics labeling it a welcoming return for Shyamalan , and was a massive financial success , grossing $ 276 million worldwide on a budget of $ 9 million .   The film is a sequel to the 2000 movie Unbreakable which was also written , produced and directed by M. Night Shaymalan . A sequel has been confirmed which will be titled Glass . 
Rogue One : A Star Wars Story , or simply Rogue One , is a 2016 American epic space opera film directed by Gareth Edwards and written by Chris Weitz and Tony Gilroy , based on a story by John Knoll and Gary Whitta . It was produced by Lucasfilm and distributed by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures . It is the first installment of the Star Wars Anthology series , set immediately before the events of the original Star Wars film . The cast includes Felicity Jones , Diego Luna , Riz Ahmed , Ben Mendelsohn , Donnie Yen , Mads Mikkelsen , Alan Tudyk , Jiang Wen and Forest Whitaker . Rogue One follows a group of rebels on a mission to steal the plans for the Death Star , the Galactic Empire 's superweapon .   Based on an idea first pitched by Knoll ten years before it entered development , the film was made to be different in tone and style from the traditional Star Wars films , including omitting the conventional opening crawl . Principal photography on the film began at Elstree Studios near London during early August 2015 and wrapped in February 2016 . The film went through extensive reshoots and additional filming in mid-June 2016 , with Gilroy joining for these . The film premiered in Los Angeles on December 10 , 2016 , and was released in the United States on December 16 , 2016 .   Rogue One received generally positive reviews , with praise for its acting , action sequences , musical score and darker tone , although some criticism was directed at the characterization and the film 's use of computer-generated imagery to recreate the likenesses of some actors . The film has grossed over $ 1 billion worldwide , making it the second highest-grossing film of 2016 and 22nd overall unadjusted for inflation . It received two Academy Awards nominations for Best Sound Mixing and Best Visual Effects . 