Shah Rukh Khan -LRB- born Shahrukh Khan ; 2 November 1965 -RRB- , also known as SRK , is an Indian film actor , producer and television personality . Referred to in the media as the `` Baadshah of Bollywood '' , `` King of Bollywood '' or `` King Khan '' , he has appeared in more than 80 Bollywood films , and earned numerous accolades , including 14 Filmfare Awards . Khan has a significant following in Asia and the Indian diaspora worldwide . In terms of audience size and income , he has been described as one of the most successful film stars in the world .   Khan began his career with appearances in several television series in the late 1980s . He made his Bollywood debut in 1992 with Deewana . Early in his career , Khan was recognised for portraying villainous roles in the films Darr -LRB- 1993 -RRB- , Baazigar -LRB- 1993 -RRB- and Anjaam -LRB- 1994 -RRB- . He then rose to prominence after starring in a series of romantic films , including Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge -LRB- 1995 -RRB- , Dil To Pagal Hai -LRB- 1997 -RRB- , Kuch Kuch Hota Hai -LRB- 1998 -RRB- , Mohabbatein -LRB- 2000 -RRB- and Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham ... -LRB- 2001 -RRB- . He earned critical acclaim for his portrayal of an alcoholic in Devdas -LRB- 2002 -RRB- , a NASA scientist in Swades -LRB- 2004 -RRB- , a hockey coach in Chak De ! India -LRB- 2007 -RRB- and a man with Asperger syndrome in My Name Is Khan -LRB- 2010 -RRB- . His highest-grossing films include the comedies Chennai Express -LRB- 2013 -RRB- and Happy New Year -LRB- 2014 -RRB- . Many of his films display themes of Indian national identity and connections with diaspora communities , or gender , racial , social and religious differences and grievances . For his contributions to film , the Government of India honoured him with the Padma Shri , and the Government of France awarded him both the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres and the Légion d'honneur .   As of 2015 , Khan is co-chairman of the motion picture production company Red Chillies Entertainment and its subsidiaries , and is the co-owner of the Indian Premier League cricket team Kolkata Knight Riders . He is a frequent television presenter and stage show performer . The media often label him as `` Brand SRK '' because of his many endorsement and entrepreneurship ventures . Khan 's philanthropic endeavours have provided health care and disaster relief , and he was honoured with UNESCO 's Pyramide con Marni award in 2011 for his support of children 's education . He regularly features in listings of the most influential people in Indian culture , and in 2008 , Newsweek named him one of their fifty most powerful people in the world . 
Baazigar -LRB- Gambler -RRB- is a 1993 Indian crime thriller film directed by Abbas -- Mustan starring Shah Rukh Khan and Kajol in the lead roles . It is a contemporary thriller about a young man who stops at nothing to get what he wants . This was Shah Rukh Khan 's breakthrough role as the sole lead and Kajol 's first commercial success . Actress Shilpa Shetty was supposed to debut with Gaata Rahe Mera Dil , however , it remained unreleased and this was her debut movie . Baazigar was the first film in which Shah Rukh Khan played the role of an anti-hero and the first which earned Khan a Filmfare Award for Best Actor . Initially Salman Khan was the choice to play the lead .   Baazigar was a major commercial success at its release and the first film of the famous Shahrukh Khan-Kajol pair .   It was remade in Tamil as Samrat with Ramki ; in Telugu as Vetagaadu with Rajasekhar ; and in Kannada as Nagarahavu with Upendra .   The film brought actors Shah Rukh Khan , Kajol , Shilpa Shetty and composer Anu Malik to the limelight . It is an adaptation of the movie A Kiss Before Dying . 
Darr : A Violent Love Story -LRB- डर , `` Fear '' -RRB- is a 1993 Indian psychological thriller directed by Yash Chopra under the banner of Yash Raj Films . It stars Sunny Deol , Juhi Chawla and Shah Rukh Khan in the pivotal roles . In the film , Shah Rukh Khan played the role of an obsessive lover .   The film was well received by critics and audiences , earning the film and its actors accolades , it was declared `` Blockbuster '' at the domestic as well as overseas box office . It has attained classic status over the years and is regarded as one of Chopra 's best . Darr was later remade in Kannada as Preethse . 