John Sidney McCain III -LRB- born August 29 , 1936 -RRB- is an American politician who currently serves as the senior United States Senator from Arizona . He was the Republican nominee for the 2008 U.S. presidential election .   McCain followed his father and grandfather , both four-star admirals , into the United States Navy , graduating from the U.S. Naval Academy in 1958 . He became a naval aviator , flying ground-attack aircraft from aircraft carriers . During the Vietnam War , he was almost killed in the 1967 USS Forrestal fire . In October 1967 , while on a bombing mission over Hanoi , he was shot down , seriously injured , and captured by the North Vietnamese . He was a prisoner of war until 1973 . McCain experienced episodes of torture , and refused an out-of-sequence early repatriation offer . His war wounds have left him with lifelong physical limitations .   He retired from the Navy as a captain in 1981 and moved to Arizona , where he entered politics . Elected to the U.S. House of Representatives in 1982 , McCain served two terms . He was first elected to the U.S. Senate in 1986 , winning re-election easily five times , most recently in 2016 . While generally adhering to conservative principles , McCain at times has had a media reputation as a `` maverick '' for his willingness to disagree with his party on certain issues . After being investigated and largely exonerated in a political influence scandal of the 1980s as a member of the Keating Five , he made campaign finance reform one of his signature concerns , eventually gaining passage of the McCain -- Feingold Act in 2002 . He is also known for his work in the 1990s to restore diplomatic relations with Vietnam , and for his belief that the Iraq War should have been fought to a successful conclusion . McCain has chaired the Senate Commerce Committee , opposed spending that he considered to be pork barrel , and played a key role in alleviating a crisis over judicial nominations with the bi-partisan group known as the Gang of 14 .   McCain ran for the Republican nomination in 2000 but lost a heated primary season contest to George W. Bush of Texas . He secured the nomination in 2008 after coming back from early reversals , but was defeated by Democratic candidate Barack Obama in the general election , losing by a 365 -- 173 electoral college margin and by 53 -- 46 % in the popular vote . He subsequently adopted more orthodox conservative stances and attitudes and largely opposed actions of the Obama administration , especially in regard to foreign policy matters . By 2013 , however , he had become a key figure in the Senate for negotiating deals on certain issues in an otherwise partisan environment . In 2015 , McCain became chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee . 
The 2008 presidential campaign of John McCain , the longtime senior U.S. Senator from Arizona , was launched with an informal announcement on February 28 , 2007 during a live taping of the Late Show with David Letterman , and formally launched at an event on April 25 , 2007 . His second candidacy for the Presidency of the United States , he had previously ran for his party 's nomination in the 2000 primaries and was considered as a potential running mate for his party 's nominee , then-Governor George W. Bush of Texas . After winning a majority of delegates in the Republican primaries of 2008 , on August 29 , leading up to the convention , McCain selected Governor Sarah Palin of Alaska as his running mate for Vice President . Five days later , at the 2008 Republican National Convention , McCain was formally selected as the Republican Party presidential nominee in the 2008 presidential election .   McCain began the campaign as the apparent frontrunner among Republicans , with a strategy of appearing as the establishment , inevitable candidate ; his campaign website featured an Associated Press article describing him as '' -LSB- a -RSB- political celebrity '' . He made substantial overtures towards elements of the Republican base that had resisted his 2000 insurgency campaign . However , he soon fell behind in polls and fundraising ; by July 2007 his campaign was forced to restructure its size and operations . The tide of Republican sentiment against immigration reform legislation he sponsored also led to the erosion of his lead .   Towards the end of 2007 , McCain began a resurgence , which was capped by his January 2008 wins in the New Hampshire , South Carolina , and Florida primaries . This made him the front-runner for the Republican nomination . On Super Tuesday , McCain won both the majority of states and delegates in the Republican primaries , giving him a commanding lead toward the Republican nomination . McCain clinched a majority of the delegates and became the presumptive Republican nominee with wins in several more primaries on March 4 . The following day , President George W. Bush endorsed McCain at the White House .   In the general election , facing Democratic nominee , Senator Barack Obama of Illinois , McCain was trailing during most of the season , only gaining a lead in national polls for a period after the Palin announcement and the 2008 Republican National Convention . The dominant issue of the campaign became the financial crisis of 2008 . Unable to gain traction against Obama in presidential debates , the final stages of the campaign saw McCain criticizing Obama for being a `` redistributionist '' and adopting symbols such as Joe the Plumber .   On November 4 , 2008 , McCain lost to Barack Obama in the general election , receiving 173 votes of the electoral college to Obama 's 365 and gaining 46 percent of the popular vote to Obama 's 53 percent . Had McCain been elected , he would have been the oldest President to take office at age 72 , succeeding Ronald Reagan , who did so at age 69 , and the first not born in the 50 states , as he was born in the Panama Canal Zone -LRB- a U.S. Territory at the time of McCain 's birth -RRB- . McCain would 've also been the first president from the state of Arizona , whereas Palin would have been the first female vice president , as well as the first vice president from Alaska and outside the mainland United States . 