is a cyberpunk-themed third-person shooter video game developed by Exact and Production I.G for the PlayStation . A part of the larger Ghost in the Shell media franchise , it utilizes the same English voice cast as the feature film of the same name , although the two do not share a story continuity . The game was first released in July 1997 , along with soundtrack albums , an artbook and a guidebook .   The game 's story and art design were written and illustrated by Masamune Shirow , the author of the original manga . Ghost in the Shells plot revolves around a recruit of Public Security Section 9 as he investigates and combats the Human Liberation Front . The player controls a Fuchikoma , a robotic fighting vehicle capable of traversing walls and ceilings .   The game received mainly positive reviews . It was praised for its graphics , animation , music and unusual wall-climbing mechanics , as well as living up to the name of the series . However , it received criticism for its tedious and repetitive gameplay and low difficulty . Fifteen years after its release , Game Informer listed Ghost in the Shell as one of the best manga and anime-based games . 
is a Japanese anime studio and production enterprise , founded on December 15 , 1987 , by Mitsuhisa Ishikawa and headquartered in Musashino , Tokyo , Japan .   Production I.G has been involved in the creation of numerous anime television series , OVAs , theatrical films , and is further involved in video game design and development , as well as music publishing and management . Among its prominent works are Guilty Crown , Psycho-Pass , Eden of the East , and the Ghost in the Shell series . It is known in the video game industry for developing intros , cut-scenes , and artwork for games such as the Namco Tales Studio 's title , Tales of Symphonia .   The letters I and G derive from the names of the company founders , Mitsuhisa Ishikawa and popular character designer Takayuki Goto . The company is a member of The Association of Japanese Animations -LRB- AJA -RRB- , an association of over 50 Japanese anime studios . 