William Bradley Pitt -LRB- born December 18 , 1963 -RRB- is an American actor and producer . He has received multiple awards and nominations including an Academy Award as producer under his own company Plan B Entertainment .   Pitt first gained recognition as a cowboy hitchhiker in the road movie Thelma & Louise -LRB- 1991 -RRB- . His first leading roles in big-budget productions came with the dramas A River Runs Through It -LRB- 1992 -RRB- and Legends of the Fall -LRB- 1994 -RRB- , and Interview with the Vampire -LRB- 1994 -RRB- . He gave critically acclaimed performances in the crime thriller Seven and the science fiction film 12 Monkeys -LRB- both 1995 -RRB- , the latter earning him a Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actor and an Academy Award nomination . Pitt starred in the cult film Fight Club -LRB- 1999 -RRB- and the heist film Ocean 's Eleven -LRB- 2001 -RRB- and its sequels , Ocean 's Twelve -LRB- 2004 -RRB- and Ocean 's Thirteen -LRB- 2007 -RRB- . His greatest commercial successes have been Troy -LRB- 2004 -RRB- , Mr. & Mrs. Smith -LRB- 2005 -RRB- , and World War Z -LRB- 2013 -RRB- . Pitt received his second and third Academy Award nominations for his leading performances in The Curious Case of Benjamin Button -LRB- 2008 -RRB- and Moneyball -LRB- 2011 -RRB- . He produced The Departed -LRB- 2006 -RRB- and 12 Years a Slave -LRB- 2013 -RRB- , both of which won the Academy Award for Best Picture , and also The Tree of Life , Moneyball , and The Big Short -LRB- 2015 -RRB- , all of which garnered Best Picture nominations .   As a public figure , Pitt has been cited as one of the most influential and powerful people in the American entertainment industry , as well as the world 's most attractive man , by various media outlets . His personal life is also the subject of wide publicity . Divorced from actress Jennifer Aniston , to whom he was married for five years , he has been married to actress Angelina Jolie since 2014 . They have six children together , three of whom were adopted internationally . In September 2016 , Jolie filed for divorce from Pitt . 
12 Years a Slave is a 2013 period drama film and an adaptation of the 1853 slave narrative memoir Twelve Years a Slave by Solomon Northup , a New York State-born free African-American man who was kidnapped in Washington , D.C. , in 1841 and sold into slavery . Northup worked on plantations in the state of Louisiana for 12 years before being released . The first scholarly edition of Northup 's memoir , co-edited in 1968 by Sue Eakin and Joseph Logsdon , carefully retraced and validated the account and concluded it to be accurate . Other characters in the film were also real people , including Edwin and Mary Epps , and Patsey .   The film was directed by Steve McQueen . The screenplay was written by John Ridley . Chiwetel Ejiofor stars as Solomon Northup . Michael Fassbender , Benedict Cumberbatch , Paul Dano , Paul Giamatti , Lupita Nyong ` o , Sarah Paulson , Brad Pitt , and Alfre Woodard are all featured in supporting roles . Principal photography took place in New Orleans , Louisiana , from June 27 to August 13 , 2012 . The locations used were four historic antebellum plantations : Felicity , Bocage , Destrehan , and Magnolia . Of the four , Magnolia is nearest to the actual plantation where Northup was held .   12 Years a Slave received widespread critical acclaim , and was named the best film of 2013 by several media outlets . It proved to be a box office success , earning over $ 187 million on a production budget of $ 22 million . The film won three Academy Awards : Best Picture , Best Supporting Actress for Nyong ` o , and Best Adapted Screenplay for Ridley . The Best Picture win made McQueen the first black producer ever to have received the award and the first black director to have directed a Best Picture winner . The film was awarded the Golden Globe Award for Best Motion Picture -- Drama , and the British Academy of Film and Television Arts recognized it with the Best Film and the Best Actor award for Ejiofor . 
The Departed is a 2006 American crime drama film directed by Martin Scorsese and written by William Monahan . It is a remake of the 2002 Hong Kong film Infernal Affairs . The film stars Leonardo DiCaprio , Matt Damon , Jack Nicholson , and Mark Wahlberg , with Martin Sheen , Ray Winstone , Vera Farmiga , Anthony Anderson and Alec Baldwin in supporting roles .   The film takes place in Boston . Irish Mob boss Francis `` Frank '' Costello -LRB- Jack Nicholson -RRB- plants Colin Sullivan -LRB- Matt Damon -RRB- as a mole within the Massachusetts State Police ; the two characters are loosely based on famous gangster Whitey Bulger and corrupt FBI agent John Connolly , who grew up with Bulger . Simultaneously , the police assign undercover state trooper William `` Billy '' Costigan -LRB- Leonardo DiCaprio -RRB- to infiltrate Costello 's crew . When both sides realize the situation , Sullivan and Costigan both attempt to discover the other 's identity before their covers are blown .   The film was a critical and commercial success and won several awards , including four Oscars at the 79th Academy Awards : Best Picture , Best Director , Best Adapted Screenplay and Best Film Editing . Wahlberg was also nominated for Best Supporting Actor . 