Philadelphia -LRB- -LSB- ˌfɪləˈdɛlfi.ə -RSB- -RRB- is the largest city in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the sixth-most populous city in the United States , with an estimated population of 1,567,872 and more than 6 million in the seventh-largest metropolitan statistical area , . Philadelphia is the economic and cultural anchor of the Delaware Valleya region located in the Northeastern United States at the confluence of the Delaware and Schuylkill Rivers with 7.2 million people residing in the eighth-largest combined statistical area in the United States .   In 1682 , William Penn , an English Quaker , founded the city to serve as capital of the Pennsylvania Colony . Philadelphia played an instrumental role in the American Revolution as a meeting place for the Founding Fathers of the United States , who signed the Declaration of Independence in 1776 and the Constitution in 1787 . Several other key Philadelphia events during the Revolution include the First and Second Continental Congress , the preservation of the Liberty Bell , the Battle of Germantown , the Siege of Fort Mifflin , and the Philadelphia Convention . Philadelphia was one of the nation 's capitals in the Revolutionary War , and served as temporary U.S. capital while Washington , D.C. , was under construction . In the 19th century , Philadelphia became a major industrial center and railroad hub that grew from an influx of European immigrants . The majority of European immigrants have come from Ireland , Italy and Germany -- the three largest reported ancestry groups in the city . The city became a prime destination for African Americans during the Great Migration of the 20th century , as well as Puerto Ricans , surpassing two million occupants by 1950 .   The area 's many universities and colleges make Philadelphia a top international study destination , as the city has evolved into an educational and economic hub . With a gross domestic product of $ 388 billion , Philadelphia ranks ninth among world cities and fourth in the nation . Philadelphia is the center of economic activity in Pennsylvania and is home to seven Fortune 1000 companies . The Philadelphia skyline is growing , with a market of almost 81,900 commercial properties in 2016 including several nationally prominent skyscrapers . The city is known for its arts , culture , and rich history , attracting over 41 million domestic tourists alone in 2015 . Philadelphia has more outdoor sculptures and murals than any other American city . Fairmount Park , when combined with the adjacent Wissahickon Valley Park in the same watershed , is one of the largest contiguous urban park areas in the United States . The 67 National Historic Landmarks in the city helped account for the $ 10 billion generated by tourism . Philadelphia is the birthplace of the United States Marine Corps , and is also the home of many U.S. firsts , including the first library -LRB- 1731 -RRB- , first hospital -LRB- 1751 -RRB- and medical school -LRB- 1765 -RRB- , first Capital -LRB- 1777 -RRB- , first stock exchange -LRB- 1790 -RRB- , first zoo -LRB- 1874 -RRB- , and first business school -LRB- 1881 -RRB- . Philadelphia is the only World Heritage City in the United States . 
The United States Marine Corps -LRB- USMC -RRB- , also known as the United States Marines , is a branch of the United States Armed Forces responsible for providing power projection , using the mobility of the United States Navy , by Congressional mandate , to deliver rapidly , combined-arms task forces on land , at sea , and in the air . The U.S. Marine Corps is one of the four armed service branches in the U.S. Department of Defense -LRB- DoD -RRB- and one of the seven uniformed services of the United States . The current Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff , the highest-ranking military officer in the U.S. Armed Forces , is a Marine Corps general .   The Marine Corps has been a component of the U.S. Department of the Navy since 30 June 1834 , working closely with naval forces for training , transportation , and logistics . The USMC operates posts on land and aboard sea-going amphibious warfare ships around the world . Additionally , several of the Marines ' tactical aviation squadrons , primarily Marine Fighter Attack squadrons , are also embedded in Navy carrier air wings and operate from the Navy 's nuclear-powered aircraft carriers .   Two battalions of Continental Marines were formed on 10 November 1775 in Philadelphia as a service branch of infantry troops capable of fighting for independence both at sea and on shore . The role of the Corps has since grown and evolved , expanding to aerial warfare and earning popular titles such as , `` America 's third air force '' , and , `` second land army '' . The U.S. Marine Corps has distinguished itself as it has served in the majority of American wars and armed conflicts , from its inception to the modern era , and attained prominence in the 20th century when its theories and practices of amphibious warfare proved prescient and ultimately formed the cornerstone of the Pacific theater of World War II .   By the mid-20th century , the U.S. Marine Corps had become a major theorist of and the world 's dominant practitioner of amphibious warfare . Its ability to rapidly respond on short notice to expeditionary crises gives it a strong role in the implementation and execution of American foreign policy . As of 2016 , the USMC has around 182,000 active duty members and some 38,500 reserve Marines . It is the smallest of the U.S. Armed Forces within the DoD . 