Martin John Christopher Freeman -LRB- born 8 September 1971 -RRB- is an English actor , who became known for portraying Tim Canterbury in the original UK version of sitcom mockumentary The Office , Dr. John Watson in the British crime drama Sherlock , Bilbo Baggins in Peter Jackson 's The Hobbit film trilogy , and Lester Nygaard in the dark comedy-crime drama TV series Fargo .   His other notable film roles include the romantic comedy Love Actually -LRB- 2003 -RRB- , the comic science fiction film The Hitchhiker 's Guide to the Galaxy -LRB- 2005 -RRB- , the semi-improvised comedy Nativity ! -LRB- 2009 -RRB- , and the comedic Three Flavours Cornetto trilogy , most prominently in the sci-fi comedy The World 's End -LRB- 2013 -RRB- . Among other accolades , he has won an Emmy Award , BAFTA Award and an Empire Award , with nominations including two other Emmy Awards , two other BAFTA Awards , a Saturn Award , and a Golden Globe Award . 
Tim Canterbury is a main character in the BBC sitcom The Office , portrayed by Martin Freeman . He is a 30-year-old sales representative for paper merchants Wernham Hogg . He has quite a self-deprecating and ironic sense of humour .   Tim flirts with , and feels great attraction to , receptionist Dawn Tinsley . His office nemesis is Gareth Keenan , with whom he regularly exchanges insults and on whom he frequently plays practical jokes . His relationship with his boss David Brent is mixed ; at times Tim seems to get along well with David , and often patiently humours Brent 's attempts at comedy and social interaction . However , like the other employees , he is often bothered and annoyed by Brent 's more extreme personality flaws .   In many ways , he is Brent 's complete opposite . While Brent tends to alienate people with his constant displays of arrogance and childlike need to be loved , Tim is liked by almost everyone due largely to his kindness , his cheeky-chappy sense of humour and his overall laid-back attitude . However , he lives an unsatisfying life -- at 30 , he still lives with his parents and works a job for which he has no passion or interest . Having dropped out of university after a year , he hopes to return there and get a Psychology degree , but his hidden insecurity prevents him from doing so . His regular pranks on Gareth are one of his ways of maintaining his sanity .   At the end of the first series , Tim abandons his plan to quit his office job and return to university to earn a degree in Psychology . He reveals to Dawn that David Brent has `` promoted '' him to Senior Sales Clerk which includes a raise of 500 pounds . As Tim relays this information , he begins speaking in a distinctly Brent-esque style , using vague syllogisms and empty phrases with no clear meaning behind them . He also backpedals on a lot of the career advice he previously gave to Dawn , and suggests that his new title has set him upon a more desirable path .   In the second series , although Tim retains much of his former ironic humour , much of his self-deprecation is absent . Despite his promotion being little more than tokenistic , he takes his job much more seriously , and insists that others do the same . This suggests a potential parallel between Tim and David Brent in terms of their career trajectory : the casual and flippant attitude being discarded upon receiving a taste of authority -LRB- however insignificant -RRB- and buying into the corporate , pencil-pushing mentality .   Tim 's equivalent in the American version of The Office is Jim Halpert . His French equivalents are Paul Delorme -LRB- played by Jeremie Elkaim -RRB- and Louis Tremblay . 