Apple Inc. is an American multinational technology company headquartered in Cupertino , California that designs , develops , and sells consumer electronics , computer software , and online services . The company 's hardware products include the iPhone smartphone , the iPad tablet computer , the Mac personal computer , the iPod portable media player , the Apple Watch smartwatch , and the Apple TV digital media player . Apple 's consumer software includes the macOS and iOS operating systems , the iTunes media player , the Safari web browser , and the iLife and iWork creativity and productivity suites . Its online services include the iTunes Store , the iOS App Store and Mac App Store , Apple Music , and iCloud .   Apple was founded by Steve Jobs , Steve Wozniak , and Ronald Wayne in April 1976 to develop and sell personal computers . It was incorporated as Apple Computer , Inc. in January 1977 , and sales of its computers saw significant momentum and revenue growth for the company . Within a few years , they had hired a staff of computer designers and had a production line . Apple went public in 1980 to instant financial success . Over the next few years , Apple shipped new computers featuring innovative graphical user interfaces , and Apple 's marketing commercials for its products received widespread critical acclaim . However , the high price tag of its products and limited software titles caused problems , as did power struggles between executives at the company . Jobs resigned from Apple and created his own company . As the market for personal computers increased , Apple 's computers saw diminishing sales due to lower-priced products from competitors , in particular those offered with the Microsoft Windows operating system . More executive job shuffles happened at Apple until then-CEO Gil Amelio in 1997 decided to buy Jobs ' company to bring him back . Jobs regained position as CEO , and began a process to rebuild Apple 's status , which included opening Apple 's own retail stores in 2001 , making numerous acquisitions of software companies to create a portfolio of software titles , and changed some of the hardware technology used in its computers . It again saw success and returned to profitability . In January 2007 , Jobs announced that Apple Computer , Inc. would be renamed Apple Inc. to reflect its shifted focus toward consumer electronics , and announced the iPhone , which saw critical acclaim and significant financial success . In August 2011 , Jobs resigned as CEO due to health complications , and Tim Cook became the new CEO . Two months later , Jobs died , marking the end of an era for the company .   Apple is the world 's largest information technology company by revenue , and the world 's second-largest mobile phone manufacturer after Samsung . In February 2015 , Apple became the first U.S. company to be valued at over US$ 700billion . The company employs 116,000 full-time employees and maintains 496 retail stores in 21 countries . It operates the iTunes Store , which is the world 's largest music retailer . , more than one billion Apple products are actively in use worldwide .   Apple 's worldwide annual revenue totaled $ 215billion for the 2016 fiscal year . The company enjoys a high level of brand loyalty and has been repeatedly ranked as the world 's most valuable brand . However , it receives significant criticism regarding the labor practices of its contractors and its environmental and business practices , including the origins of source materials . 
Steven Paul Jobs -LRB- -LSB- ˈdʒɒbz -RSB- February 24 , 1955 -- October 5 , 2011 -RRB- was an American entrepreneur , businessman , inventor , and industrial designer . He was the co-founder , chairman , and chief executive officer -LRB- CEO -RRB- of Apple Inc. ; CEO and majority shareholder of Pixar ; a member of The Walt Disney Company 's board of directors following its acquisition of Pixar ; and founder , chairman , and CEO of NeXT . Jobs and Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak are widely recognized as pioneers of the microcomputer revolution of the 1970s and 1980s .   Jobs was born in San Francisco to Syrian parents who had to put him up for adoption at birth ; he was raised in the San Francisco Bay Area during the 1960s . Jobs briefly attended Reed College in 1972 before dropping out . He then decided to travel through India in 1974 seeking enlightenment and studying Zen Buddhism . Jobs 's declassified FBI report stated that an acquaintance knew that Jobs had used the illegal drugs marijuana and LSD while he was in college . Jobs once told a reporter that taking LSD was `` one of the two or three most important things '' he did in his life .   Jobs and Wozniak co-founded Apple in 1976 to sell Wozniak 's Apple I personal computer . The visionaries gained fame and wealth a year later for the Apple II , one of the first highly successful mass-produced personal computers . In 1979 , after a tour of PARC , Jobs saw the commercial potential of the Xerox Alto , which was mouse-driven and had a graphical user interface -LRB- GUI -RRB- . This led to development of the unsuccessful Apple Lisa in 1983 , followed by the breakthrough Macintosh in 1984 . In addition to being the first mass-produced computer with a GUI , the Macintosh introduced the sudden rise of the desktop publishing industry in 1985 with the addition of the Apple LaserWriter , the first laser printer to feature vector graphics . Following a long power struggle , Jobs was forced out of Apple in 1985 .   After leaving Apple , Jobs took a few of its members with him to found NeXT , a computer platform development company specializing in state-of-the-art computers for higher-education and business markets . In addition , Jobs helped to initiate the development of the visual effects industry when he funded the spinout of the computer graphics division of George Lucas 's Lucasfilm in 1986 . The new company , Pixar , would eventually produce the first fully computer-animated film , Toy Story -- an event made possible in part because of Jobs 's financial support .   In 1997 , Apple merged with NeXT . Within a few months of the merger , Jobs became CEO of his former company , reviving Apple at the verge of bankruptcy . Beginning in 1997 with the `` Think different '' advertising campaign , Jobs worked closely with designer Jonathan Ive to develop a line of products that would have larger cultural ramifications : the iMac , iTunes and iTunes Store , Apple Store , iPod , iPhone , App Store , and the iPad . Mac OS was also revamped into OS X -LRB- renamed `` macOS '' in 2016 -RRB- , based on NeXT 's NeXTSTEP platform .   Jobs was diagnosed with a pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor in 2003 and died on October 5 , 2011 , of respiratory arrest related to the tumor . 