Paris , also known as Alexander -LRB- Ἀλέξανδρος , Aléxandros -RRB- , the son of King Priam and Queen Hecuba of Troy , appears in a number of Greek legends . Probably the best-known was his elopement with Helen , queen of Sparta , this being one of the immediate causes of the Trojan War . Later in the war , he fatally wounds Achilles in the heel with an arrow as foretold by Achilles 's mother Thetis . The name Paris is probably Luwian and comparable to Pari-zitis attested as a Hittite scribe 's name . 
Greek mythology is the body of myths and teachings that belong to the ancient Greeks , concerning their gods and heroes , the nature of the world , and the origins and significance of their own cult and ritual practices . It was a part of the religion in ancient Greece . Modern scholars refer to and study the myths in an attempt to shed light on the religious and political institutions of ancient Greece and its civilization , and to gain understanding of the nature of myth-making itself .   Greek mythology is explicitly embodied in a large collection of narratives , and implicitly in Greek representational arts , such as vase-paintings and votive gifts . Greek myth attempts to explain the origins of the world , and details the lives and adventures of a wide variety of gods , goddesses , heroes , heroines and mythological creatures . These accounts initially were disseminated in an oral-poetic tradition ; today the Greek myths are known primarily from ancient Greek literature .  The oldest known Greek literary sources , Homer 's epic poems Iliad and Odyssey , focus on the Trojan War and its aftermath . Two poems by Homer 's near contemporary Hesiod , the Theogony and the Works and Days , contain accounts of the genesis of the world , the succession of divine rulers , the succession of human ages , the origin of human woes , and the origin of sacrificial practices . Myths are also preserved in the Homeric Hymns , in fragments of epic poems of the Epic Cycle , in lyric poems , in the works of the tragedians and comedians of the fifth century BC , in writings of scholars and poets of the Hellenistic Age , and in texts from the time of the Roman Empire by writers such as Plutarch and Pausanias .   Archaeological findings provide a principal source of detail about Greek mythology , with gods and heroes featured prominently in the decoration of many artifacts . Geometric designs on pottery of the eighth century BC depict scenes from the Trojan cycle as well as the adventures of Heracles . In the succeeding Archaic , Classical , and Hellenistic periods , Homeric and various other mythological scenes appear , supplementing the existing literary evidence . Greek mythology has had an extensive influence on the culture , arts , and literature of Western civilization and remains part of Western heritage and language . Poets and artists from ancient times to the present have derived inspiration from Greek mythology and have discovered contemporary significance and relevance in the themes . 