Steven Vincent Buscemi -LRB- -LSB- buːˈsɛmi -RSB- born December 13 , 1957 -RRB- is an American actor and film director . Buscemi has starred and supported in successful Hollywood and indie films , including Parting Glances , New York Stories , Mystery Train , Reservoir Dogs , Desperado , Con Air , Armageddon , The Grey Zone , Ghost World , Big Fish , and The Sopranos . He is also known for his appearances in many films by the Coen brothers : Miller 's Crossing , Barton Fink , The Hudsucker Proxy , Fargo , and The Big Lebowski . Buscemi provides the voice of Randall Boggs in the Monsters , Inc. franchise .   From 2010 to 2014 , he portrayed Enoch `` Nucky '' Thompson in the critically acclaimed series Boardwalk Empire , which earned him two Screen Actors Guild Awards , a Golden Globe , and two nominations for an Emmy Award . He made his directorial debut in 1996 , with Trees Lounge , in which he also starred . Other works include Animal Factory -LRB- 2000 -RRB- , Lonesome Jim -LRB- 2005 -RRB- and Interview -LRB- 2007 -RRB- . He has also directed numerous episodes of TV shows , including Homicide : Life on the Street , The Sopranos , Oz , 30 Rock , and Nurse Jackie . He currently hosts the Emmy Award-winning AOL On comedy talk-show Park Bench . 
Boardwalk Empire is an American period crime drama television series created by Terence Winter and airing on premium cable channel HBO . The series is set in Atlantic City , New Jersey during the Prohibition era and stars Steve Buscemi as Nucky Thompson . Winter , a Primetime Emmy Award-winning screenwriter and producer , created the show , inspired by the book Boardwalk Empire : The Birth , High Times , and Corruption of Atlantic City by Nelson Johnson about historical criminal kingpin Enoch L. Johnson .   The pilot episode was directed by Martin Scorsese and produced at a cost of $ 18 million . On September 1 , 2009 , HBO picked up the series for an additional 11 episodes . The series premiered on September 19 , 2010 , and completed its five-season run on October 26 , 2014 .   Boardwalk Empire received widespread critical acclaim , particularly for its visual style and basis on historical figures , as well as for Buscemi 's lead performance . The series received 57 Primetime Emmy Award nominations , including two for Outstanding Drama Series , winning 20 . The series also won the Golden Globe Award for Best Television Series -- Drama in 2011 and two Screen Actors Guild Awards for Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Drama Series in 2011 and 2012 . 