Boston -LRB- pronounced -LSB- ˈbɒstən -RSB- -RRB- is the capital and most populous city of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts in the United States . Boston is also the seat of Suffolk County , although the county government was disbanded on July 1 , 1999 . The city proper covers 48 mi2 with an estimated population of 667,137 in 2015 , making it the largest city in New England and the 23rd most populous city in the United States . The city is the economic and cultural anchor of a substantially larger metropolitan area known as Greater Boston , a Metropolitan Statistical Area -LRB- MSA -RRB- home to a census-estimated 4.7 million people in 2014 and ranking as the tenth-largest such area in the country . Alternately , as a Combined Statistical Area -LRB- CSA -RRB- , this wider commuting region is home to some 8.1 million people , making it the sixth-largest as such in the United States .   One of the oldest cities in the United States , Boston was founded on the Shawmut Peninsula in 1630 by Puritan settlers from England . It was the scene of several key events of the American Revolution , such as the Boston Massacre , the Boston Tea Party , the Battle of Bunker Hill , and the Siege of Boston . Upon U.S. independence from Great Britain , it continued to be an important port and manufacturing hub as well as a center for education and culture . Through land reclamation and municipal annexation , Boston has expanded beyond the original peninsula . Its rich history attracts many tourists , with Faneuil Hall alone drawing over 20 million visitors per year . Boston 's many firsts include the United States ' first public school , Boston Latin School -LRB- 1635 -RRB- , first subway system , the Tremont Street Subway -LRB- 1897 -RRB- , and first public park , Boston Common -LRB- 1634 -RRB- .   The area 's many colleges and universities make Boston an international center of higher education , including law , medicine , engineering , and business , and the city is considered to be a world leader in innovation and entrepreneurship , with nearly 2,000 startups . Boston 's economic base also includes finance , professional and business services , biotechnology , information technology , and government activities . Households in the city claim the highest average rate of philanthropy in the United States ; businesses and institutions rank among the top in the country for environmental sustainability and investment . The city has one of the highest costs of living in the United States as it has undergone gentrification , though it remains high on world livability rankings . 
Higher education , post-secondary education , or third level education is an optional final stage of formal learning that occurs after completion of secondary education . Often delivered at universities , academies , colleges , seminaries , conservatories , and institutes of technology , higher education is also available through certain college-level institutions , including vocational schools , trade schools , and other career colleges that award academic degrees or professional certifications . Tertiary education at non-degree level is sometimes referred to as further education or continuing education as distinct from higher education .   The right of access to higher education is mentioned in a number of international human rights instruments . The UN International Covenant on Economic , Social and Cultural Rights of 1966 declares , in Article 13 , that `` higher education shall be made equally accessible to all , on the basis of capacity , by every appropriate means , and in particular by the progressive introduction of free education '' . In Europe , Article 2 of the First Protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights , adopted in 1950 , obliges all signatory parties to guarantee the right to education .   In the days when few pupils progressed beyond primary education , the term `` higher education '' was often used to refer to secondary education , which can create some confusion .   Higher education includes teaching , research , exacting applied work -LRB- e.g. in medical schools and dental schools -RRB- , and social services activities of universities . Within the realm of teaching , it includes both the undergraduate level , and beyond that , graduate-level -LRB- or postgraduate level -RRB- . The latter level of education is often referred to as graduate school , especially in North America .   Since World War II , developed and many developing countries have increased the participation of the age group who mostly studies higher education from the elite rate , of up to 15 per cent , to the mass rate of 16 to 50 per cent . In many developed countries , participation in higher education has continued to increase towards universal or , what Trow later called , open access , where over half of the relevant age group participate in higher education . Higher education is important to national economies , both as an industry , in its own right , and as a source of trained and educated personnel for the rest of the economy . College educated workers have commanded a measurable wage premium and are much less likely to become unemployed than less educated workers .   However , the admission of so many students of only average ability to higher education inevitably requires a decline in academic standards , facilitated by grade inflation . Also , the supply of graduates in many fields of study is exceeding the demand for their skills , which aggravates graduate unemployment and underemployment , as well as credentialism and educational inflation . 