Snooki & Jwoww -LRB- sometimes rendered Snooki & JWOWW in print and online sources -RRB- is an American reality television series on MTV starring Snooki and JWoww . It is the second of three spin-offs of Jersey Shore , on which both Polizzi and Farley previously gained fame as cast members . The series ran from June 21 , 2012 until February 4 , 2015 over four seasons . The series , which is executive produced by Jersey Shore producer SallyAnn Salsano of 495 Productions , is described by its stars as a modern-day Laverne & Shirley .   The first season focuses on Polizzi and Farley living together in a former firehouse in Jersey City , New Jersey , though Polizzi 's pregnancy , which was confirmed during filming of the first season , led to a change in episode content and tone that would distance it from the party-oriented antics of its parent show . Filming began on the first season February 25 , 2012 , and lasted five weeks . A second season was confirmed on August 3 , 2012 , and premiered on January 8 , 2013 . On April 25 , 2013 , MTV renewed the series for a third season , which premiered on October 22 , 2013 . On April 24 , 2014 , the series was renewed for the fourth and final season , which premiered on November 5 , 2014 , and concluded on February 4 , 2015 . 
MTV -LRB- originally an initialism of Music Television -RRB- is an American cable and satellite television channel owned by Viacom Media Networks -LRB- a division of Viacom -RRB- and headquartered in New York City . Launched on August 1 , 1981 , the channel originally aired music videos as guided by television personalities known as `` video jockeys '' -LRB- VJs -RRB- . In its early years , MTV 's main target demographic was young adults , but today it is primarily towards teenagers , particularly high school and college students . MTV has toned down its music video programming significantly in recent years , and its programming now consists mainly of original reality , comedy and drama programming and some off-network syndicated programs and films , with limited music video programming in off-peak time periods . It has received criticism towards this change of focus , both by certain segments of its audience and musicians . MTV 's influence on its audience , including issues involving censorship and social activism , has also been a subject of debate for several years .   In recent years , MTV had struggled with the secular decline of music-related cable media . Its ratings had been said to be failing systematically , as younger viewers increasingly shift towards digital media , with yearly ratings drops as high as 29 % ; thus there was doubt of the lasting relevance of MTV towards young audiences . In April 2016 , MTV announced it would start to return to its original music roots with the reintroduction of the classic MTV series MTV Unplugged . It was also reported that the series MTV Cribs would be making a return on Snapchat , with fourteen original music-related shows speculated to be in production .   MTV has spawned numerous sister channels in the US and affiliated channels internationally , some of which have gone independent . As of July 2015 , approximately 92,188,000 US households -LRB- 79.2 % of households with television -RRB- have received MTV . 