Psychology is the science of behavior and mind , embracing all aspects of conscious and unconscious experience as well as thought . It is an academic discipline and a social science which seeks to understand individuals and groups by establishing general principles and researching specific cases .   In this field , a professional practitioner or researcher is called a psychologist and can be classified as a social , behavioral , or cognitive scientist . Psychologists attempt to understand the role of mental functions in individual and social behavior , while also exploring the physiological and biological processes that underlie cognitive functions and behaviors .   Psychologists explore behavior and mental processes , including perception , cognition , attention , emotion -LRB- affect -RRB- , intelligence , phenomenology , motivation -LRB- conation -RRB- , brain functioning , and personality . This extends to interaction between people , such as interpersonal relationships , including psychological resilience , family resilience , and other areas . Psychologists of diverse orientations also consider the unconscious mind . Psychologists employ empirical methods to infer causal and correlational relationships between psychosocial variables . In addition , or in opposition , to employing empirical and deductive methods , some -- especially clinical and counseling psychologists -- at times rely upon symbolic interpretation and other inductive techniques . Psychology has been described as a `` hub science '' , with psychological findings linking to research and perspectives from the social sciences , natural sciences , medicine , humanities , and philosophy .   While psychological knowledge is often applied to the assessment and treatment of mental health problems , it is also directed towards understanding and solving problems in several spheres of human activity . By many accounts psychology ultimately aims to benefit society . The majority of psychologists are involved in some kind of therapeutic role , practicing in clinical , counseling , or school settings . Many do scientific research on a wide range of topics related to mental processes and behavior , and typically work in university psychology departments or teach in other academic settings -LRB- e.g. , medical schools , hospitals -RRB- . Some are employed in industrial and organizational settings , or in other areas such as human development and aging , sports , health , and the media , as well as in forensic investigation and other aspects of law . 
Humanities are academic disciplines that study aspects of human culture . In the Middle Ages , the term contrasted with divinity and referred to what is now called classics , the main area of secular study in universities at the time . Today , the humanities are more frequently contrasted with natural , and sometimes social , sciences as well as professional training .   The humanities use methods that are primarily critical , or speculative , and have a significant historical element -- as distinguished from the mainly empirical approaches of the natural sciences , yet , unlike the sciences , it has no central discipline .  The humanities include ancient and modern languages , literature , philosophy , religion , art and musicology .   Scholars in the humanities are `` humanity scholars '' or humanists . The term `` humanist '' also describes the philosophical position of humanism , which some `` antihumanist '' scholars in the humanities refuse . The Renaissance scholars and artists were also called humanists . Some secondary schools offer humanities classes usually consisting of English literature , global studies and art .   Human disciplines like history and cultural anthropology study subject matters that the experimental method does not apply to -- and instead mainly use the comparative method and comparative research . 