Lieutenant General Leslie Richard Groves Jr. -LRB- 17 August 1896 -- 13 July 1970 -RRB- was a United States Army Corps of Engineers officer who oversaw the construction of the Pentagon and directed the Manhattan Project , a top secret research project that developed the atomic bomb during World War II .   As the son of a United States Army chaplain , Groves lived at a number of Army posts during his childhood . He graduated fourth in his class at the United States Military Academy at West Point in 1918 and was commissioned into the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers . In 1929 , he went to Nicaragua as part of an expedition whose purpose was to conduct a survey for the Inter-Oceanic Nicaragua Canal . Following the 1931 Nicaragua earthquake , Groves took over responsibility for Managua 's water supply system , for which he was awarded the Nicaraguan Presidential Medal of Merit . He attended the Command and General Staff School at Fort Leavenworth , Kansas , in 1935 and 1936 , and the Army War College in 1938 and 1939 , after which he was posted to the War Department General Staff .   In 1940 Groves , who `` had a reputation as a doer , a driver , and a stickler for duty '' , became special assistant for construction to the Quartermaster General , tasked with inspecting construction sites and checking on their progress . In August 1941 , he was given responsibility for the gigantic office complex to house the War Department 's 40,000 staff which would ultimately become the Pentagon . In September 1942 , Groves took charge of the Manhattan Project . He was involved in most aspects of the atomic bomb 's development . He participated in the selection of sites for research and production at Oak Ridge , Tennessee ; Los Alamos , New Mexico ; and Hanford , Washington . He directed the enormous construction effort , made critical decisions on the various methods of isotope separation , acquired raw materials , directed the collection of military intelligence on the German nuclear energy project and helped select the cities in Japan that were chosen as targets . Groves wrapped the Manhattan Project in security but failed to prevent the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics from conducting a successful espionage program that stole some of its most important secrets .   After the war , Groves remained in charge of the Manhattan Project until responsibility for nuclear weapons production was handed over to the United States Atomic Energy Commission in 1947 . He then headed the Armed Forces Special Weapons Project , which had been created to control the military aspects of nuclear weapons . He was given a dressing down by the Chief of Staff of the United States Army , General of the Army Dwight D. Eisenhower , and told that he would never be appointed Chief of Engineers . Three days later , Groves announced his intention to leave the Army . He was promoted to lieutenant general just before his retirement on 29 February 1948 in recognition of his leadership of the bomb program . By a special Act of Congress , his date of rank was backdated to 16 July 1945 , the date of the Trinity nuclear test . He went on to become a vice-president at Sperry Rand . 
The Manhattan Project was a research and development undertaking during World War II that produced the first nuclear weapons . It was led by the United States with the support of the United Kingdom and Canada . From 1942 to 1946 , the project was under the direction of Major General Leslie Groves of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers . Nuclear physicist J. Robert Oppenheimer was the director of the Los Alamos Laboratory that designed the actual bombs . The Army component of the project was designated the Manhattan District ; `` Manhattan '' gradually superseded the official codename , Development of Substitute Materials , for the entire project . Along the way , the project absorbed its earlier British counterpart , Tube Alloys . The Manhattan Project began modestly in 1939 , but grew to employ more than 130,000 people and cost nearly US $ 2 billion -LRB- about $ in dollars -RRB- . Over 90 % of the cost was for building factories and to produce fissile material , with less than 10 % for development and production of the weapons . Research and production took place at more than 30 sites across the United States , the United Kingdom , and Canada .   Two types of atomic bombs were developed concurrently during the war : a relatively simple gun-type fission weapon and a more complex implosion-type nuclear weapon . The Thin Man gun-type design proved impractical to use with plutonium so a simpler gun-type called Little Boy was developed that used uranium-235 , an isotope that makes up only 0.7 percent of natural uranium . Chemically identical to the most common isotope , uranium-238 , and with almost the same mass , it proved difficult to separate the two . Three methods were employed for uranium enrichment : electromagnetic , gaseous and thermal . Most of this work was performed at the Clinton Engineer Works at Oak Ridge , Tennessee .   In parallel with the work on uranium was an effort to produce plutonium . After the feasibility of the world 's first artificial nuclear reactor was demonstrated in Chicago at the Metallurgical Laboratory , it designed the X-10 Graphite Reactor at Oak Ridge and the production reactors in Hanford , Washington , in which uranium was irradiated and transmuted into plutonium . The plutonium was then chemically separated from the uranium . The Fat Man implosion-type weapon was developed in a concerted design and development effort by the Los Alamos Laboratory .   The project was also charged with gathering intelligence on the German nuclear weapon project . Through Operation Alsos , Manhattan Project personnel served in Europe , sometimes behind enemy lines , where they gathered nuclear materials and documents , and rounded up German scientists . Despite the Manhattan Project 's tight security , Soviet atomic spies still penetrated the program .   The first nuclear device ever detonated was an implosion-type bomb at the Trinity test , conducted at New Mexico 's Alamogordo Bombing and Gunnery Range on 16 July 1945 . Little Boy and Fat Man bombs were used a month later in the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki , respectively . In the immediate postwar years , the Manhattan Project conducted weapons testing at Bikini Atoll as part of Operation Crossroads , developed new weapons , promoted the development of the network of national laboratories , supported medical research into radiology and laid the foundations for the nuclear navy . It maintained control over American atomic weapons research and production until the formation of the United States Atomic Energy Commission in January 1947 . 