Dumb and Dumber is a 1994 American comedy road film starring Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels . It was written by the Farrelly brothers and Bennett Yellin , and is the Farrelly brothers ' directorial debut . The film tells the story of Lloyd Christmas and Harry Dunne , two unintelligent but well-meaning friends from Providence , Rhode Island who set out on a cross-country trip to Aspen , Colorado to return a briefcase full of money to its owner , only to be pursued by a group of criminals who are after the briefcase .   The film was released on December 16 , 1994 . It grossed $ 247 million at the box office and has developed a cult following in the years since its release . The success of Dumb and Dumber launched the career of the Farrelly brothers and solidified Carrey 's . The film also spawned an animated TV series , a 2003 prequel , and a 2014 sequel . 
Dumb and Dumber : The Animated Series is a Hanna-Barbera-produced animated series based on the 1994 comedy film of the same name . The animated series premiered in 1995 on ABC .   The cartoon revolves around the continued misadventures of Lloyd and Harry after reacquiring their dogshaped van now named `` Otto '' . It also features a new character , Kitty , a female pet purple beaver who appears to be smarter than both men . It is the final Hanna-Barbera-produced show to premiere on ABC -LRB- as well as the final Hanna-Barbera-produced show to air on broadcast network television -RRB- and one of the last Saturday morning cartoons on the network not associated with The Walt Disney Company .   Matt Frewer provided the voice of Lloyd Christmas -LRB- Jim Carrey 's character in the movie -RRB- , while Bill Fagerbakke voiced the character of Harry Dunne -LRB- Jeff Daniels ' character in the movie -RRB- . The animated series was written by Bennett Yellin , co-writer of the original film . The series was cancelled after one season . It aired in reruns on Cartoon Network after its cancellation .   In Britain , the series was screened on Cartoon Network before receiving terrestrial airings on Channel 4 -LRB- unlike The Mask : Animated Series and Ace Ventura : Pet Detective , two other shows based on a film starring Jim Carrey , both of which were shown by the BBC -RRB- .   A tape containing some episodes of the show , including `` Dumb Luck '' , was released in Australia and Russia in the 1990s , but in the United States , there were never any tapes of the show released on home video . 