The Academy Awards , now known officially as the Oscars , is a set of twenty-four awards for artistic and technical merit in the American film industry , given annually by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences -LRB- AMPAS -RRB- , to recognize excellence in cinematic achievements as assessed by the Academy 's voting membership . The various category winners are awarded a copy of a golden statuette , officially called the `` Academy Award of Merit '' , which has become commonly known by its nickname `` Oscar '' . The awards , first presented in 1929 at the Hollywood Roosevelt Hotel , are overseen by AMPAS .   The awards ceremony was first broadcast on radio in 1930 and televised for the first time in 1953 . It is now seen live in more than 200 countries and can be streamed live online . The Academy Awards ceremony is the oldest worldwide entertainment awards ceremony . Its equivalents -- the Emmy Awards for television , the Tony Awards for theater , and the Grammy Awards for music and recording -- are modeled after the Academy Awards .   The 89th Academy Awards ceremony , honoring the best films of 2016 , were held on February 26 , 2017 , at the Dolby Theatre , in Los Angeles , California . The ceremony was hosted by Jimmy Kimmel and was broadcast on ABC . A total of 3,048 Oscars have been awarded from the inception of the award through the 88th . 
The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences -LRB- AMPAS , also known as simply the Academy -RRB- is a professional honorary organization with the stated goal of advancing the arts and sciences of motion pictures . The Academy 's corporate management and general policies are overseen by a Board of Governors , which includes representatives from each of the craft branches .   The roster of the Academy 's approximately 6,000 motion picture professionals is a `` closely guarded secret '' . While the great majority of its members are based in the United States , membership is open to qualified filmmakers around the world .   The Academy is known around the world for its annual Academy Awards , now officially known as The `` Oscars '' .   In addition , the Academy holds the Governors Awards annually for lifetime achievement in film ; presents Scientific and Technical Awards annually ; gives Student Academy Awards annually to filmmakers at the undergraduate and graduate level ; awards up to five Nicholl Fellowships in Screenwriting annually ; and operates the Margaret Herrick Library -LRB- at the Fairbanks Center for Motion Picture Study -RRB- in Beverly Hills , California , and the Pickford Center for Motion Picture Study in Hollywood , Los Angeles . The Academy plans to open the Academy Museum of Motion Pictures in Los Angeles in 2017 . 