RasenBallsport Leipzig e.V. , commonly known as RB Leipzig , is a German association football club based in Leipzig , Saxony . The club was founded in 2009 by initiative of energy drink-maker Red Bull GmbH who purchased a playing right of the fifth division side SSV Markranstädt with the intention of advancing the new club to the top-flight Bundesliga within eight years . Men 's professional football is run by the spin-off organization RasenballSport Leipzig GmbH . RB Leipzig plays its home matches at the Red Bull Arena .   In its inaugural season in 2009 -- 10 , RB Leipzig dominated the NOFV-Oberliga Süd -LRB- V -RRB- and was promoted as champions to the Regionalliga Nord -LRB- IV -RRB- . RB Leipzig won the 2012 -- 13 Regionalliga Nordost season without conceding a single defeat and was promoted to the 3 . Liga -LRB- III -RRB- , then finished the 2013 -- 14 3 . Liga season as runner-up and was promoted to the 2 . Bundesliga -LRB- II -RRB- as the first team since the introduction of the 3 . Liga to win promotion after only one season .   On 8 May 2016 , RB Leipzig ensured promotion to the Bundesliga for the 2016 -- 17 season with a 2 -- 0 defeat of Karlsruher SC . One year later , RB Leipzig captured a place in the 2017 -- 18 UEFA Champions League by finishing as runner-up of the Bundesliga . 
The Free State of Saxony -LRB- der Freistaat Sachsen -LSB- ˈfʁaɪ̯ʃtaːt ˈzaksn̩ -RSB- Swobodny stat Sakska -RRB- is a landlocked federal state of Germany , bordering the federal states of Brandenburg , Saxony Anhalt , Thuringia , and Bavaria , as well as the countries of Poland -LRB- Lower Silesian and Lubusz Voivodeships -RRB- and the Czech Republic -LRB- Karlovy Vary , Liberec and Ústí nad Labem Regions -RRB- . Its capital is Dresden , and its largest city is Leipzig .   Saxony is the tenth largest of Germany 's sixteen states , with an area of 18,413 km2 , and the sixth most populous , with 4 million people .   Located in the middle of a large , formerly all German-speaking part of Europe , the history of the state of Saxony spans more than a millennium . It has been a medieval duchy , an electorate of the Holy Roman Empire , a kingdom , and twice a republic .   The area of the modern state of Saxony should not be confused with Old Saxony , the area inhabited by Saxons . Old Saxony corresponds approximately to the modern German states of Lower Saxony , Saxony-Anhalt and the Westphalian part of North Rhine-Westphalia . 