Henry Kenneth Alfred `` Ken '' Russell -LRB- 3 July 1927 -- 27 November 2011 -RRB- was an English film director , known for his pioneering work in television and film and for his flamboyant and controversial style . Critics have accused him of being obsessed with sexuality and the Roman Catholic Church . His films in the main were liberal adaptations of existing texts , or biographies , notably of composers of the Romantic era . Russell began directing for the BBC , where he made creative adaptations of composers ' lives which were unusual for the time . He also directed many feature films independently and for studios .   He is best known for his Oscar-winning films Women in Love -LRB- 1969 -RRB- , The Devils -LRB- 1971 -RRB- , The Who 's Tommy -LRB- 1975 -RRB- , and the science fiction film Altered States -LRB- 1980 -RRB- . Russell also directed several films based on the lives of classical music composers , such as Elgar , Delius , Tchaikovsky , Mahler , and Liszt .   Film critic Mark Kermode , speaking in 2006 , and attempting to sum up the director 's achievement , called Russell , `` somebody who proved that British cinema did n't have to be about kitchen-sink realism -- it could be every bit as flamboyant as Fellini . Later in his life he turned to making low-budget experimental films such as Lion 's Mouth and Revenge of the Elephant Man , and they are as edgy and ` out there ' as ever '' .   Ken Russell died of natural causes on 27 November 2011 at the age of 84 . 
The Academy Awards , now known officially as the Oscars , is a set of twenty-four awards for artistic and technical merit in the American film industry , given annually by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences -LRB- AMPAS -RRB- , to recognize excellence in cinematic achievements as assessed by the Academy 's voting membership . The various category winners are awarded a copy of a golden statuette , officially called the `` Academy Award of Merit '' , which has become commonly known by its nickname `` Oscar '' . The awards , first presented in 1929 at the Hollywood Roosevelt Hotel , are overseen by AMPAS .   The awards ceremony was first broadcast on radio in 1930 and televised for the first time in 1953 . It is now seen live in more than 200 countries and can be streamed live online . The Academy Awards ceremony is the oldest worldwide entertainment awards ceremony . Its equivalents -- the Emmy Awards for television , the Tony Awards for theater , and the Grammy Awards for music and recording -- are modeled after the Academy Awards .   The 89th Academy Awards ceremony , honoring the best films of 2016 , were held on February 26 , 2017 , at the Dolby Theatre , in Los Angeles , California . The ceremony was hosted by Jimmy Kimmel and was broadcast on ABC . A total of 3,048 Oscars have been awarded from the inception of the award through the 88th . 