Rock music is a genre of popular music that originated as `` rock and roll '' in the United States in the early 1950s , and developed into a range of different styles in the 1960s and later , particularly in the United Kingdom and the United States . It has its roots in 1940s and 1950s rock and roll , a style which drew heavily on the African-American genres of blues and rhythm and blues , and from country music . Rock music also drew strongly on a number of other genres such as electric blues and folk , and incorporated influences from jazz , classical and other musical styles . Musically , rock has centered on the electric guitar , usually as part of a rock group with electric bass and drums and one or more singers . Typically , rock is song-based music usually with a 4/4 time signature using a verse-chorus form , but the genre has become extremely diverse . Like pop music , lyrics often stress romantic love but also address a wide variety of other themes that are frequently social or political .   By the late 1960s `` classic rock '' period , a number of distinct rock music subgenres had emerged , including hybrids like blues rock , folk rock , country rock , raga rock , and jazz-rock , many of which contributed to the development of psychedelic rock , which was influenced by the countercultural psychedelic and hippie scene . New genres that emerged included progressive rock , which extended the artistic elements ; glam rock , which highlighted showmanship and visual style ; and the diverse and enduring subgenre of heavy metal , which emphasized volume , power , and speed . In the second half of the 1970s , punk rock reacted by producing stripped-down , energetic social and political critiques . Punk was an influence in the 1980s on new wave , post-punk and eventually alternative rock . From the 1990s alternative rock began to dominate rock music and break into the mainstream in the form of grunge , Britpop , and indie rock . Further fusion subgenres have since emerged , including pop punk , rap rock , and rap metal , as well as conscious attempts to revisit rock 's history , including the garage rock/post-punk and synth-pop revivals at the beginning of the 2000s -LRB- decade -RRB- .   Rock music has also embodied and served as the vehicle for cultural and social movements , leading to major subcultures including mods and rockers in the UK and the hippie counterculture that spread out from San Francisco in the US in the 1960s . Similarly , 1970s punk culture spawned the goth and emo subcultures . Inheriting the folk tradition of the protest song , rock music has been associated with political activism as well as changes in social attitudes to race , sex and drug use , and is often seen as an expression of youth revolt against adult consumerism and conformity . 
Blues is a genre and musical form originated by African Americans in the Deep South of the United States around the end of the 19th century . The genre developed from roots in African musical traditions , African-American work songs ,  spirituals , and folk music . Blues incorporated spirituals , work songs , field hollers , shouts , chants , and rhymed simple narrative ballads . The blues form , ubiquitous in jazz , rhythm and blues and rock and roll , is characterized by the call-and-response pattern , the blues scale and specific chord progressions , of which the twelve-bar blues is the most common . Blue notes -LRB- or `` worried notes '' -RRB- , usually thirds or fifths flattened in pitch , are also an essential part of the sound . Blues shuffles or walking bass reinforce the trance-like rhythm and form a repetitive effect known as the groove .   Blues as a genre is also characterized by its lyrics , bass lines , and instrumentation . Early traditional blues verses consisted of a single line repeated four times . It was only in the first decades of the 20th century that the most common current structure became standard : the AAB pattern , consisting of a line sung over the four first bars , its repetition over the next four , and then a longer concluding line over the last bars . Early blues frequently took the form of a loose narrative , often relating the troubles experienced in African-American society .   Many elements , such as the call-and-response format and the use of blue notes , can be traced back to the music of Africa . The origins of the blues are also closely related to the religious music of the Afro-American community , the spirituals . The first appearance of the blues is often dated to after the ending of slavery and , later , the development of juke joints . It is associated with the newly acquired freedom of the former slaves . Chroniclers began to report about blues music at the dawn of the 20th century . The first publication of blues sheet music was in 1908 . Blues has since evolved from unaccompanied vocal music and oral traditions of slaves into a wide variety of styles and subgenres . Blues subgenres include country blues , such as Delta blues and Piedmont blues , as well as urban blues styles such as Chicago blues and West Coast blues . World War II marked the transition from acoustic to electric blues and the progressive opening of blues music to a wider audience , especially white listeners . In the 1960s and 1970s , a hybrid form called blues rock evolved . 
Jazz is a music genre that originated in African American communities of New Orleans , United States , in the late 19th and early 20th centuries , and developed from roots in blues and ragtime . Since the 1920s Jazz Age , jazz has become recognized as a major form of musical expression . It then emerged in the form of independent traditional and popular musical styles , all linked by the common bonds of African American and European American musical parentage with a performance orientation . Jazz is characterized by swing and blue notes , call and response vocals , polyrhythms and improvisation . Jazz has roots in West African cultural and musical expression , and in African-American music traditions including blues and ragtime , as well as European military band music . Although the foundation of jazz is deeply rooted within the Black experience of the United States , different cultures have contributed their own experience and styles to the art form as well . Intellectuals around the world have hailed jazz as `` one of America 's original art forms '' .   As jazz spread around the world , it drew on different national , regional , and local musical cultures , which gave rise to many distinctive styles . New Orleans jazz began in the early 1910s , combining earlier brass-band marches , French quadrilles , biguine , ragtime and blues with collective polyphonic improvisation . In the 1930s , heavily arranged dance-oriented swing big bands , Kansas City jazz , a hard-swinging , bluesy , improvisational style and Gypsy jazz -LRB- a style that emphasized musette waltzes -RRB- were the prominent styles . Bebop emerged in the 1940s , shifting jazz from danceable popular music toward a more challenging `` musician 's music '' which was played at faster tempos and used more chord-based improvisation . Cool jazz developed in the end of the 1940s , introducing calmer , smoother sounds and long , linear melodic lines .   The 1950s saw the emergence of free jazz , which explored playing without regular meter , beat and formal structures , and in the mid-1950s , hard bop emerged , which introduced influences from rhythm and blues , gospel , and blues , especially in the saxophone and piano playing . Modal jazz developed in the late 1950s , using the mode , or musical scale , as the basis of musical structure and improvisation . Jazz-rock fusion appeared in the late 1960s and early 1970s , combining jazz improvisation with rock music 's rhythms , electric instruments , and highly amplified stage sound . In the early 1980s , a commercial form of jazz fusion called smooth jazz became successful , garnering significant radio airplay . Other styles and genres abound in the 2000s , such as Latin and Afro-Cuban jazz . 