Andorra -LRB- -LSB- ænˈdɔ : rə -RSB- -LSB- ənˈdorə -RSB- , -LSB- anˈdɔra -RSB- -RRB- , officially the Principality of Andorra -LRB- Principat d'Andorra -RRB- , also called the Principality of the Valleys of Andorra -LRB- -LSB- Principat de les Valls d'Andorra , links = no -RSB- -RRB- , is a sovereign landlocked microstate in Southwestern Europe , located in the eastern Pyrenees mountains and bordered by Spain and France . Created under a charter in 988 , the present principality was formed in 1278 . It is known as a principality as it is a diarchy headed by two Co-Princes the Roman Catholic Bishop of Urgell in Spain , and the President of France .   Andorra is the sixth-smallest nation in Europe , having an area of 468 km2 -LRB- 181 sq mi -RRB- and a population of approximately 85,000 . Its capital Andorra la Vella is the highest capital city in Europe , at an elevation of 1,023 m above sea level . The official language is Catalan , although Spanish , Portuguese , and French are also commonly spoken .   Andorra 's tourism services an estimated 10.2 million visitors annually . It is not a member of the European Union , but the euro is the official currency . It has been a member of the United Nations since 1993 . In 2013 , the people of Andorra had the highest life expectancy in the world at 81 years , according to The Lancet . 
The European ministates are a set of very small sovereign states in Europe . Andorra , Liechtenstein , Malta , Monaco , San Marino , and the Vatican City are usually included , and are the six smallest states in Europe by area . Four of these states are monarchies -LRB- three principalities -- Andorra , Liechtenstein , and Monaco -- and one papacy , the Vatican City -RRB- , with all these states tracing their status back to the first millennium or the early second millennium , except for Liechtenstein , created in the 17th century .   Microstates are small independent states recognized by larger states , unlike micronations , which are only self-declared and not recognized . According to the qualitative definition suggested by Dumienski -LRB- 2014 -RRB- , microstates can also be viewed as `` modern protected states , i.e. sovereign states that have been able to unilaterally depute certain attributes of sovereignty to larger powers in exchange for benign protection of their political and economic viability against their geographic or demographic constraints . '' In line with this definition , only Andorra , Liechtenstein , San Marino , and Monaco qualify as `` microstates '' as only these states are sovereignties functioning in close , but voluntary , association with their respective larger neighbour -LRB- s -RRB- . Luxembourg , which is significantly larger than the European microstates , nonetheless also shares some of these characteristics .   Some scholars dispute the status of Vatican City as a state , arguing that it does not meet the `` traditional criteria of statehood '' and that the `` special status of the Vatican City is probably best regarded as a means of ensuring that the Pope can freely exercise his spiritual functions , and in this respect is loosely analogous to that of the headquarters of international organisations . '' 