Back to the Future Part II is a 1989 American science-fiction adventure comedy film directed by Robert Zemeckis and written by Bob Gale . It is the sequel to the 1985 film Back to the Future and the second installment in the Back to the Future trilogy . The film stars Michael J. Fox , Christopher Lloyd , Thomas F. Wilson , and Lea Thompson and continues immediately following the original film . After repairing the damage to history done by his previous time travel adventures , Marty McFly -LRB- Fox -RRB- and his friend Dr. Emmett `` Doc '' Brown -LRB- Lloyd -RRB- travel to 2015 to prevent McFly 's future son from ending up imprisoned . However , their presence allows Biff Tannen -LRB- Wilson -RRB- to steal Doc 's DeLorean time machine and travel to 1955 , where he alters history by making his younger self wealthy .   The film was produced on a $ 40-million budget and was filmed back-to-back with its sequel , Part III . Filming began in February 1989 after two years were spent building the sets and writing the scripts . Two actors from the first film , Crispin Glover and Claudia Wells , did not return for the final two . While Elisabeth Shue was recast in the role of Wells ' character , Jennifer , Glover 's character , George McFly , was not only minimized in the plot , but also was obscured and recreated with another actor . Glover successfully sued both Zemeckis and Gale , changing how producers can deal with the departure and replacement of actors in a role . Back to the Future Part II was also a ground-breaking project for effects studio Industrial Light & Magic -LRB- ILM -RRB- : In addition to digital compositing , ILM used the VistaGlide motion control camera system , which allowed an actor to portray multiple characters simultaneously on-screen without sacrificing camera movement .   Back to the Future Part II was released by Universal Pictures on November 22 , 1989 . The film received mixed reviews from critics and grossed over $ 331 million worldwide , making it the third-highest-grossing film of 1989 . 
Science fiction film -LRB- or sci-fi -RRB- is a genre that uses speculative , fictional science-based depictions of phenomena that are not fully accepted by mainstream science , such as extraterrestrial lifeforms , alien worlds , extrasensory perception and time travel , along with futuristic elements such as spacecraft , robots , cyborgs , interstellar travel or other technologies . Science fiction films have often been used to focus on political or social issues , and to explore philosophical issues like the human condition . In many cases , tropes derived from written science fiction may be used by filmmakers ignorant of or at best indifferent to the standards of scientific plausibility and plot logic to which written science fiction is traditionally held .   The genre has existed since the early years of silent cinema , when Georges Melies ' A Trip to the Moon -LRB- 1902 -RRB- employed trick photography effects . The next major example in the genre was the film Metropolis -LRB- 1927 -RRB- - being the first feature length science fiction movie . From the 1930s to the 1950s , the genre consisted mainly of low-budget B movies . After Stanley Kubrick 's landmark 2001 : A Space Odyssey -LRB- 1968 -RRB- , the science fiction film genre was taken more seriously . In the late 1970s , big-budget science fiction films filled with special effects became popular with audiences after the success of Star Wars and paved the way for the blockbuster hits of subsequent decades . 