Shonen Jump , officially stylized SHONEN JUMP and abbreviated SJ , is a shōnen manga anthology published in North America by Viz Media . It debuted in November 2002 with the first issue having a January 2003 cover date . Based on Shueisha 's popular Japanese magazine Weekly Shōnen Jump , Shonen Jump is retooled for English readers and the American audience , including changing it from a weekly publication to a monthly one . It features serialized chapters from four manga series , and articles on Japanese language and culture , as well as manga , anime , video games , and figurines . Prior to the magazine 's launch , Viz launched an extensive marketing campaign to promote it and help it succeed where previous manga anthologies published in North America had failed . Shueisha purchased an equity interest in Viz to help fund the venture , and Cartoon Network , Suncoast , and Diamond Distributors became promotional partners in the magazine .   In conjunction with the magazine , Viz launched new imprints for releasing media related to the series presented in the magazine , and other shōnen works . This includes two new manga imprints , an anime DVD imprint , a fiction line for releasing light novels , a label for fan and data books , and a label for the release of art books .   Targeted towards young adult males , the first issue required three printings to meet consumer demand , with over 300,000 copies sold . It was awarded the ICv2 `` Comic Product of the Year '' award in December 2002 , and has continued to enjoy high sales with a monthly circulation of 215,000 in 2008 . Approximately half of its circulation comes from subscriptions rather than store sales .   Shonen Jump published its final issue in April 2012 when Viz decided to focus on a weekly digital manga anthology . Weekly Shonen Jump -LRB- initially named Weekly Shonen Jump Alpha -RRB- launched in January 2012 and is still in production . 
North America is a continent entirely within the Northern Hemisphere and almost all within the Western Hemisphere . It can also be considered a northern subcontinent of the Americas . It is bordered to the north by the Arctic Ocean , to the east by the Atlantic Ocean , to the west and south by the Pacific Ocean , and to the southeast by South America and the Caribbean Sea .   North America covers an area of about 24,709,000 square kilometers -LRB- 9,540,000 square miles -RRB- , about 16.5 % of the earth 's land area and about 4.8 % of its total surface .  North America is the third largest continent by area , following Asia and Africa , and the fourth by population after Asia , Africa , and Europe .   In 2013 , its population was estimated at nearly 565 million people in 23 independent states , or about 7.5 % of the world 's population , if nearby islands -LRB- most notably the Caribbean -RRB- are included .   North America was reached by its first human populations during the last glacial period , via crossing the Bering land bridge approximately 40,000 to 17,000 years ago . The so-called Paleo-Indian period is taken to have lasted until about 10,000 years ago -LRB- the beginning of the Archaic or Meso-Indian period -RRB- . The Classic stage spans roughly the 6th to 13th centuries . The Pre-Columbian era ended with the transatlantic migrations and the arrival of European settlers during the Age of Discovery and the Early Modern period . Present-day cultural and ethnic patterns reflect different kind of interactions between European colonists , indigenous peoples , African slaves and their descendants . European influences are strongest in the northern parts of the continent while indigenous and African influences are relatively stronger in the south . Because of the history of colonialism , most North Americans speak English , Spanish or French and societies and states commonly reflect Western traditions . 