Despicable Me is a 2010 American 3D computer-animated comedy film from Universal Pictures and Illumination Entertainment that was released on July 9 , 2010 in the United States . It is the debut film of Illumination Entertainment . The film was animated by the French animation studio Mac Guff , which was later acquired by Illumination Entertainment . It was directed by Pierre Coffin and Chris Renaud as their feature debut film , with a story by Sergio Pablos . The film stars the voice of Steve Carell as Gru , a supervillain who adopts three girls -LRB- voiced by Miranda Cosgrove , Dana Gaier , and Elsie Fisher -RRB- from an orphanage ; and the voice of Jason Segel as Vector , a rival of Gru who steals the Great Pyramid of Giza . When Gru learns of Vector 's heist , he plans an even greater heist : to shrink and steal the Earth 's moon .   The film earned positive reviews from critics , and grossed over $ 543 million worldwide , against a budget of $ 69 million . It launched the Despicable Me franchise with a series of films , including the sequel Despicable Me 2 in 2013 , and the prequel Minions released in 2015 featuring Gru 's Minions as the main characters . Another sequel , Despicable Me 3 , is scheduled for release in 2017 . 
Computer animation is the process used for generating animated images . The more general term computer-generated imagery -LRB- CGI -RRB- encompasses both static scenes and dynamic images , while computer animation only refers to the moving images . Modern computer animation usually uses 3D computer graphics , although 2D computer graphics are still used for stylistic , low bandwidth , and faster real-time renderings . Sometimes , the target of the animation is the computer itself , but sometimes film as well .   Computer animation is essentially a digital successor to the stop motion techniques using 3D models , and traditional animation techniques using frame-by-frame animation of 2D illustrations . Computer-generated animations are more controllable than other more physically based processes , constructing miniatures for effects shots or hiring extras for crowd scenes , and because it allows the creation of images that would not be feasible using any other technology . It can also allow a single graphic artist to produce such content without the use of actors , expensive set pieces , or props . To create the illusion of movement , an image is displayed on the computer monitor and repeatedly replaced by a new image that is similar to it , but advanced slightly in time -LRB- usually at a rate of 24 or 30 frames/second -RRB- . This technique is identical to how the illusion of movement is achieved with television and motion pictures .   For 3D animations , objects -LRB- models -RRB- are built on the computer monitor -LRB- modeled -RRB- and 3D figures are rigged with a virtual skeleton . For 2D figure animations , separate objects -LRB- illustrations -RRB- and separate transparent layers are used with or without that virtual skeleton . Then the limbs , eyes , mouth , clothes , etc. of the figure are moved by the animator on key frames . The differences in appearance between key frames are automatically calculated by the computer in a process known as tweening or morphing . Finally , the animation is rendered .   For 3D animations , all frames must be rendered after the modeling is complete . For 2D vector animations , the rendering process is the key frame illustration process , while tweened frames are rendered as needed . For pre-recorded presentations , the rendered frames are transferred to a different format or medium , like digital video . The frames may also be rendered in real time as they are presented to the end-user audience . Low bandwidth animations transmitted via the internet -LRB- e.g. Adobe Flash , X3D -RRB- often use software on the end-users computer to render in real time as an alternative to streaming or pre-loaded high bandwidth animations . 