Delta Air Lines , Inc. -LRB- `` Delta '' ; -RRB- is a major American airline , with its headquarters and largest hub at Hartsfield -- Jackson Atlanta International Airport in Atlanta , Georgia . The airline along with its subsidiaries and regional affiliates operate over 5,400 flights daily and serve an extensive domestic and international network that includes 319 destinations in 54 countries on six continents , as of October 2016 . Delta is one of the four founding members of the SkyTeam airline alliance , and operates joint ventures with Air France-KLM , Alitalia , Korean Air , China Eastern Airlines , Virgin Atlantic , and Virgin Australia . Regional service is operated under the brand name Delta Connection .   One of the five remaining legacy carriers , Delta is the sixth-oldest operating airline by foundation date , and the oldest airline still operating in the United States . The company 's history can be traced back to Huff Daland Dusters , founded in 1924 in Macon , Georgia as a crop dusting operation . The company moved to Monroe , Louisiana , and was later renamed Delta Air Services , in reference to the nearby Mississippi Delta region , and commenced passenger services on June 17 , 1929 . Among predecessors of today 's Delta Air Lines , Western Airlines and Northwest Airlines began flying passengers in 1926 and 1927 , respectively .   In 2013 , Delta Air Lines was the world 's largest airline in terms of scheduled passengers carried -LRB- 120.6 million -RRB- , and the second-largest in terms of both revenue passenger-kilometers flown -LRB- 277.6 billion -RRB- and capacity -LRB- 4.4 billion ASM/week ; March 2013 -RRB- . 
Atlanta is the capital of and the most populous city in the U.S. state of Georgia , with an estimated 2016 population of 472,522 . Atlanta is the cultural and economic center of the Atlanta metropolitan area , home to 5,710,795 people and the ninth largest metropolitan area in the United States . Atlanta is the county seat of Fulton County , and a small portion of the city extends eastward into DeKalb County .   In 1837 , Atlanta was founded at the intersection of two railroad lines , and the city rose from the ashes of the American Civil War to become a national center of commerce . In the decades following the Civil Rights Movement , the city earned a reputation as `` too busy to hate '' for the relatively progressive views of its citizens and leaders compared to other cities in the Deep South . Atlanta attained international prominence , and it became the primary transportation hub of the Southeastern United States , via highway , railroad , and air , with Hartsfield -- Jackson Atlanta International Airport being the world 's busiest airport since 1998 .   Atlanta rated an `` alpha - '' world city that exerts a significant impact upon commerce , finance , research , technology , education , media , art , and entertainment . It ranks 40th among world cities and 8th in the nation with a gross domestic product of $ 270 billion . Atlanta 's economy is considered diverse , with dominant sectors that include logistics , professional and business services , media operations , and information technology . Atlanta has topographic features that include rolling hills and dense tree coverage . Revitalization of Atlanta 's neighborhoods , initially spurred by the 1996 Olympics in Atlanta , has intensified in the 21st century , altering the city 's demographics , politics , and culture . 