Kung Fu Panda 3 is a 2016 Chinese-American 3D computer-animated action-comedy martial arts film produced by DreamWorks Animation and distributed by 20th Century Fox . It is the third installment in the Kung Fu Panda franchise , and the sequel to Kung Fu Panda 2 -LRB- 2011 -RRB- . In the film , Po enters the panda village and reunites with his birth father and other pandas , but problems arise when a villainous spirit warrior , named Kai , returns to the mortal realm and steals chi from the kung fu masters . To prevent Kai from taking chi from all kung fu masters and pandas , Po forms the army of pandas to battle Kai 's jade minions and Po must become a master of chi to defeat him and save his friends .   The film was directed by Jennifer Yuh Nelson and Alessandro Carloni , written by Jonathan Aibel and Glenn Berger , produced by Melissa Cobb , and executive produced by Guillermo del Toro . Jack Black , Dustin Hoffman , Angelina Jolie , Lucy Liu , Seth Rogen , David Cross , Jackie Chan and James Hong reprise their roles from the previous films with Randall Duk Kim reprising his role of Oogway from the first Kung Fu Panda film -LRB- 2008 -RRB- . They are joined by Bryan Cranston , J. K. Simmons and Kate Hudson in the roles of Li Shan , Kai , and Mei Mei , respectively .   Kung Fu Panda 3 received a limited release in China on January 23 for a special three-hour sneak preview and was released starting from January 28 in South Korea and Russia . It was released in theatres across the United States and Canada on January 29 in 3D , and on March 11 in the United Kingdom . The film grossed $ 521 million worldwide . 
Angelina Jolie Pitt -LRB- -LSB- dʒoʊˈliː -RSB- ; née Voight ; born June 4 , 1975 -RRB- is an American actress , filmmaker , philanthropist and humanitarian . She has received an Academy Award , two Screen Actors Guild Awards , and three Golden Globe Awards , and has been cited as Hollywood 's highest-paid actress . Jolie made her screen debut as a child alongside her father , Jon Voight , in Lookin ' to Get Out -LRB- 1982 -RRB- . Her film career began in earnest a decade later with the low-budget production Cyborg 2 -LRB- 1993 -RRB- , followed by her first leading role in a major film , Hackers -LRB- 1995 -RRB- . She starred in the critically acclaimed biographical cable films George Wallace -LRB- 1997 -RRB- and Gia -LRB- 1998 -RRB- , and won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance in the drama Girl , Interrupted -LRB- 1999 -RRB- .   Jolie 's starring role as the video game heroine Lara Croft in Lara Croft : Tomb Raider -LRB- 2001 -RRB- established her as a leading Hollywood actress . She continued her successful action-star career with Mr. & Mrs. Smith -LRB- 2005 -RRB- , Wanted -LRB- 2008 -RRB- , and Salt -LRB- 2010 -RRB- , and received critical acclaim for her performances in the dramas A Mighty Heart -LRB- 2007 -RRB- and Changeling -LRB- 2008 -RRB- , which earned her a nomination for an Academy Award for Best Actress . Beginning in the 2010s , she expanded her career into directing , screenwriting , and producing , starting with the wartime dramas In the Land of Blood and Honey -LRB- 2011 -RRB- and Unbroken -LRB- 2014 -RRB- . Her biggest commercial success came with the fantasy picture Maleficent -LRB- 2014 -RRB- .   In addition to her film career , Jolie is noted for her humanitarian efforts , for which she has received a Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award and an honorary damehood of the Order of St Michael and St George -LRB- DCMG -RRB- , among other honors . She promotes various causes , including conservation , education , and women 's rights , and is most noted for her advocacy on behalf of refugees as a Special Envoy for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees -LRB- UNHCR -RRB- . As a public figure , Jolie has been cited as one of the most influential and powerful people in the American entertainment industry , as well as the world 's most beautiful woman , by various media outlets . Her personal life is the subject of wide publicity . Divorced from actors Jonny Lee Miller and Billy Bob Thornton , she separated from her third husband , actor Brad Pitt , in September 2016 . They have six children together , three of whom were adopted internationally . 