Cricket is a bat-and-ball game played between two teams of eleven players on a cricket field , at the centre of which is a rectangular 22-yard-long pitch with a wicket -LRB- a set of three wooden stumps -RRB- at each end . One team bats , attempting to score as many runs as possible , whilst their opponents field . Each phase of play is called an innings . After either ten batsmen have been dismissed or a fixed number of overs have been completed , the innings ends and the two teams then swap roles . The winning team is the one that scores the most runs , including any extras gained , during their innings .   At the start of each game , two batsmen and eleven fielders enter the field of play . The play begins when a member of the fielding team , known as the bowler , delivers the ball from one end of the pitch to the other , towards the wicket at that end , in front of which stands one of the batsmen , known as the striker . The striker `` takes guard '' on a crease drawn on the pitch four feet in front of the wicket . His role is to prevent the ball from hitting the stumps by use of his bat , and simultaneously to strike it well enough to score runs . The other batsman , known as the non-striker , waits at the opposite end of the pitch near the bowler . A dismissed batsman must leave the field , and a teammate replaces him . The bowler 's objectives are to prevent the scoring of runs and to dismiss the batsman . An over is a set of six deliveries bowled by the same bowler . The next over is bowled from the other end of the pitch by a different bowler .   The most common forms of dismissal are bowled , when the bowler hits the stumps directly with the ball ; leg before wicket , when the batsman prevents the ball from hitting the stumps with his body instead of his bat ; and caught , when the batsman hits the ball into the air and it is intercepted by a fielder before touching the ground . Runs are scored by two main methods : either by hitting the ball hard enough for it to cross the boundary , or by the two batsmen swapping ends by each simultaneously running the length of the pitch in opposite directions whilst the fielders are retrieving the ball . If a fielder retrieves the ball quickly enough to put down the wicket with a batsman not having reached the crease at that end of the pitch , that batsman is dismissed -LRB- a run-out occurs -RRB- . Adjudication is performed on the field by two umpires .   The laws of cricket are maintained by the International Cricket Council -LRB- ICC -RRB- and the Marylebone Cricket Club -LRB- MCC -RRB- . There are various formats ranging from Twenty20 , played over a few hours with each team having a single innings of 20 overs -LRB- i.e. 120 deliveries -RRB- , to Test cricket , played over five days with unlimited overs and the teams playing two innings apiece . Traditionally cricketers play in all-white kit , but in limited overs cricket they wear club or team colours . In addition to the basic kit , some players wear protective gear to prevent injury caused by the ball , which is a hard , solid object made of compressed leather enclosing a cork core .   Although cricket 's origins are uncertain , it is first recorded in south-east England in the 16th century . It spread globally with the expansion of the British Empire , leading to the first international matches in the mid-19th century . ICC , the game 's governing body , has over 100 members , ten of which are full members who play Test cricket . The sport is followed primarily in Australasia , Britain , the Indian subcontinent , southern Africa and the West Indies . Women 's cricket , which is organised and played separately , has also achieved international standard . 
Great Britain , also known as Britain , is a large island in the north Atlantic Ocean off the northwest coast of continental Europe . With an area of 209,331 km2 , Great Britain is the largest of the British Isles , the largest European island , and the ninth-largest island in the world . In 2011 the island had a population of about 61 million people , making it the world 's third-most populous island after Java in Indonesia and Honshu in Japan . The island of Ireland is situated to the west of it , and together these islands , along with over 1,000 smaller surrounding islands , comprise the British Isles archipelago .   The island is dominated by a maritime climate with quite narrow temperature differences between seasons . Politically , the island is part of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , and constitutes most of its territory . Most of England , Scotland , and Wales are on the island . The term `` Great Britain '' often extends to include surrounding islands that form part of England , Scotland , and Wales , and is also sometimes loosely applied to the UK as a whole .   A single Kingdom of Great Britain resulted from the union of the Kingdom of England -LRB- which had already comprised the present-day countries of England and Wales -RRB- and the Kingdom of Scotland by the 1707 Acts of Union . More than a hundred years before , in 1603 , King James VI , King of Scots , had inherited the throne of England , but it was not until 1707 that the two countries ' parliaments agreed to form a political union . In 1801 , Great Britain united with the neighbouring Kingdom of Ireland , forming the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland , which was renamed the `` United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland '' after the Irish Free State seceded in 1922 . 