is a Japanese animation studio and production enterprise . It is a subsidiary of Bandai Namco Holdings . Its former name was Nippon Sunrise , and prior to that , Sunrise Studios . Its headquarters is located in Suginami , Tokyo .   Among Japan 's largest and most famous studios , Sunrise is renowned for several critically lauded and popular original anime series , such as Gundam , Cowboy Bebop , Space Runaway Ideon , Armored Trooper Votoms , Yoroiden Samurai Troopers , Future GPX Cyber Formula , Crush Gear Turbo , The Vision of Escaflowne , Love Live School Idol Project , Witch Hunter Robin , My-HiME , My-Otome , Code Geass : Lelouch of the Rebellion , Tiger & Bunny , Cross Ange : Rondo of Angel and Dragon , as well as its numerous adaptations of acclaimed light novels including Dirty Pair , Horizon in the Middle of Nowhere and Accel World , and manga such as City Hunter , InuYasha , Outlaw Star , Yakitate !! Japan , Planetes , Keroro Gunso , Gin Tama , Kekkaishi and several others .   Many of Sunrise 's original anime include similar themes , including mecha and masked identities accompanied with fluid animation . Because of the fluidity and high degree of details on much of their works , fans refer to their animation works as `` Sunrise Smooth '' .   Most of their works are mostly original titles created in-house by their creative staffs that went into a collective pseudonym called Hajime Yatate . They also previously operated a now defunct video game studio of their own named Sunrise Interactive . Sunrise also launched their own light novel publication titled Yatate Bunko Imprint on September 30 , 2016 aimed to publish new original titles and also to supplemment their already existing franchises with new materials .   Anime created by Sunrise that have won the Animage Anime Grand Prix prize are Mobile Suit Gundam in 1979 and the first half of 1980 , Space Runaway Ideon in the second half of 1980 , Crusher Joe -LRB- co-production with Studio Nue -RRB- in 1983 , Dirty Pair in 1985 , Future GPX Cyber Formula in 1991 , Gundam SEED in 2002 , Gundam SEED Destiny in 2004 and 2005 , Code Geass : Lelouch of the Rebellion in 2006 and 2007 and Code Geass R2 in 2008 , thus making Sunrise as the studio that won the most number of Animage Awards . 
An is a Japanese hand-drawn or computer animation . The word is the abbreviated pronunciation of `` animation '' in Japanese , where this term references all animation . Outside Japan , anime is used to refer specifically to animation from Japan or as a Japanese-disseminated animation style often characterized by colorful graphics , vibrant characters and fantastical themes . Arguably , the culturally abstract approach to the word 's meaning may open up the possibility of anime produced in countries other than Japan . For simplicity , many Westerners strictly view anime as a Japanese animation product . Some scholars suggest defining anime as specifically or quintessentially Japanese may be related to a new form of orientalism .   The earliest commercial Japanese animation dates to 1917 , and Japanese anime production has since continued to increase steadily . The characteristic anime art style emerged in the 1960s with the works of Osamu Tezuka and spread internationally in the late twentieth century , developing a large domestic and international audience . Anime is distributed theatrically , by way of television broadcasts , directly to home media , and over the Internet . It is classified into numerous genres targeting diverse broad and niche audiences .   Anime is a diverse art form with distinctive production methods and techniques that have been adapted over time in response to emergent technologies . It consists of an ideal story-telling mechanism , combining graphic art , characterization , cinematography , and other forms of imaginative and individualistic techniques . The production of anime focuses less on the animation of movement and more on the realism of settings as well as the use of camera effects , including panning , zooming , and angle shots . Being hand-drawn , anime is separated from reality by a crucial gap of fiction that provides an ideal path for escapism that audiences can immerse themselves into with relative ease . Diverse art styles are used and character proportions and features can be quite varied , including characteristically large emotive or realistically sized eyes .   The anime industry consists of over 430 production studios , including major names like Studio Ghibli , Gainax , and Toei Animation . Despite comprising only a fraction of Japan 's domestic film market , anime makes up a majority of Japanese DVD sales . It has also seen international success after the rise of English-dubbed programming . This rise in international popularity has resulted in non-Japanese productions using the anime art style , but these works are usually described as anime-influenced animation rather than anime proper . 