Rebecca Louisa Ferguson Sundström -LRB- born 19 October 1983 -RRB- , known professionally as Rebecca Ferguson , is a Swedish actress . She is best known for her lead role as Elizabeth Woodville in The White Queen -LRB- 2013 -RRB- , which earned her a Golden Globe nomination , and her starring roles as Ilsa Faust in Mission : Impossible -- Rogue Nation -LRB- 2015 -RRB- and as Dr. Miranda North in Life -LRB- 2017 -RRB- . Ferguson is set to return in Mission : Impossible 6 -LRB- 2018 -RRB- . 
The White Queen is a British television drama series in ten parts , based on Philippa Gregory 's historical novel series The Cousins ' War -LRB- The White Queen , The Red Queen , and The Kingmaker 's Daughter -RRB- . The first episode was premiered on BBC One on 16 June 2013 in the United Kingdom . It was first broadcast in the United States on Starz on 9 August 2013 .   The series is set against the backdrop of the Wars of the Roses and presents the story of the women involved in the protracted conflict for the throne of England . It starts in 1464 ; the nation has been at war for nine years fighting over who is the rightful King of England , as two sides of the same family , the House of York and the House of Lancaster , are in violent conflict over the throne . The story focuses on three women in their quest for power , as they manipulate events behind the scenes of history : Elizabeth Woodville , Margaret Beaufort , and Anne Neville . Elizabeth Woodville is the central character in the novel The White Queen , while Margaret Beaufort and Anne Neville are the focus of the novels The Red Queen and The Kingmaker 's Daughter , respectively . However , all three characters appear in all three novels that went to make up the television series .   The final episode of The White Queen was aired on 18 August 2013 , and the series was released on DVD and Blu-ray Disc the following day . Two days later , it was confirmed that The White Queen would not be returning for a second series . In a statement to Broadcast , the BBC stated that the show was always planned as a one-season series . In October 2013 , The Telegraph reported that Starz planned to develop a sequel miniseries called The White Princess , based on Gregory 's 2013 novel of the same name . Gregory confirmed that the project was underway in August 2015 . On 7 February 2016 , Gregory announced on Facebook that the sequel was officially confirmed to be in production , with the scripts being written .   The White Queen was nominated for three Golden Globe Awards , four Primetime Emmy Awards , and a People 's Choice Award . 