Sean John Combs -LRB- born November 4 , 1969 -RRB- , also known by his stage names Puff Daddy , Puffy , P. Diddy and Diddy , is an American rapper , singer , songwriter , actor , record producer and entrepreneur . He was born in Harlem and was raised in Mount Vernon , New York . He worked as a talent director at Uptown Records before founding his label Bad Boy Entertainment in 1993 . His debut album No Way Out -LRB- 1997 -RRB- has been certified seven times platinum and was followed by successful albums such as Forever -LRB- 1999 -RRB- , The Saga Continues ... -LRB- 2001 -RRB- , and Press Play -LRB- 2006 -RRB- . In 2009 Combs formed the musical group Diddy -- Dirty Money and released the critically well-reviewed and commercially successful album Last Train to Paris -LRB- 2010 -RRB- .   Combs has won three Grammy Awards and two MTV Video Music Awards , and is the producer of MTV 's Making the Band . He is the Chairman and CEO of Combs Enterprises . In 2017 Forbes estimated his net worth at $ 820 million . 
No Way Out is the debut studio album by American hip hop recording artist , songwriter and record producer Puff Daddy . It was released on July 1 , 1997 , by his Bad Boy record label . The label 's official crediting as `` The Family '' , featuring guest appearances from his label-mates and other artists . The production on the album was provided by Puff Daddy -LRB- real name Sean Combs -RRB- , alongside with a variety of the members from the production group , called The Hitmen . Puff Daddy was also serving as a executive producer alongside The Notorious B.I.G. and Deric `` D-Dot '' Angelettie -LRB- of The Hitmen -RRB- . It contains the generally introspective content based on his friend and rapper The Notorious B.I.G. , who died from the shooting on March 9 , 1997 , which affected Combs emotionally . The album 's content consists largely of aggressive lyrics but also includes elements of positive emotion .   The album received generally mixed to positive reviews from music critics , who generally wrote positively about its emotional feel and its production , but were divided in their reviews towards both Puff Daddy 's rapping and songwriting . The album earned Combs five nominations at the 40th Grammy Awards in 1998 , winning the Grammy Award for Best Rap Album . 