The Jackson family is an American family of singers who originated in Gary , Indiana . Performing as members of The Jackson 5 and as solo artists , the children of Joseph Walter and Katherine Esther Jackson were very successful in the field of popular music from the late 1960s onwards . As a group , the eldest sons Jackie , Tito , Jermaine , Marlon , Randy and Michael , made the family 's reputation , facilitating the subsequent success of siblings Rebbie , La Toya , and Janet . The Jackson 5 became known as the `` First Family of Soul '' -LRB- a title first held by the Five Stairsteps -RRB- . The continued success of Michael and Janet 's careers as solo artists led the Jacksons to become known as the `` Royal Family of Pop '' . All nine of the Jackson siblings have gold records to their credits with La Toya holding the distinction of being the first Jackson sister to attain one -LRB- awarded by France 's SNEP for `` Reggae Night '' , a song she co-wrote for Jimmy Cliff -RRB- .   In recent years , certain members of the family have been honored for their work ; in 1997 The Jackson 5 was inducted to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame . Michael would follow the group to the hall in 2001 . The Jacksons , Michael and Janet all received stars on the Hollywood Walk of Fame in 1980 , 1984 and 1990 respectively . In 2009 a new series from A&E entitled The Jacksons : A Family Dynasty premiered documenting the Jackson brothers dealing with the sudden loss of Michael and preparing for a Jackson 5 Reunion tour . 
Jermaine La Jaune Jackson -LRB- born December 11 , 1954 -RRB- is an American singer , bass guitarist , composer , and occasional film director . Jackson is mostly known for having in the past been a member of The Jackson 5 . Jackson also produced and recorded duets with American singer Whitney Houston in her early years as a recording artist and was a producer for Bobby DeBarge 's band Switch . Jackson is the fourth child of the Jackson family . 
La Toya Yvonne Jackson -LRB- born May 29 , 1956 -RRB- is an American singer and songwriter . Jackson is the fifth child of the Jackson family . Jackson maintained a career as a singer throughout the 1980s and 1990s , and returned to music in 2004 with her Billboard charting songs `` Just Wan na Dance '' and `` Free the World '' . An EP called Starting Over was released on June 21 , 2011 .   In 2013 , Jackson began the reality television series Life with La Toya , documenting her life and career on the Oprah Winfrey Network -LRB- OWN -RRB- which aired for two seasons until 2014 . 