Adolf Hitler -LRB- -LSB- ˈadɔlf ˈhɪtlɐ -RSB- ; 20 April 1889 -- 30 April 1945 -RRB- was a German politician who was the leader of the Nazi Party -LRB- Nationalsozialistische Deutsche Arbeiterpartei ; NSDAP -RRB- , Chancellor of Germany from 1933 to 1945 , and Führer -LRB- `` Leader '' -RRB- of Nazi Germany from 1934 to 1945 . As dictator of the German Reich , he initiated World War II in Europe with the invasion of Poland in September 1939 , and was central to the Holocaust .   Hitler was born in Austria , then part of Austria-Hungary , and raised near Linz . He moved to Germany in 1913 and was decorated during his service in the German Army in World War I . He joined the German Workers ' Party -LRB- DAP -RRB- , the precursor of the NSDAP , in 1919 and became leader of the NSDAP in 1921 . In 1923 he attempted a coup in Munich to seize power . The failed coup resulted in Hitler 's imprisonment , during which he dictated the first volume of his autobiography and political manifesto Mein Kampf -LRB- `` My Struggle '' -RRB- . After his release in 1924 , Hitler gained popular support by attacking the Treaty of Versailles and promoting Pan-Germanism , anti-semitism , and anti-communism with charismatic oratory and Nazi propaganda . Hitler frequently denounced international capitalism and communism as being part of a Jewish conspiracy .   By 1933 , the Nazi Party was the largest elected party in the German Reichstag , which led to Hitler 's appointment as Chancellor on 30 January 1933 . Following fresh elections won by his coalition , the Reichstag passed the Enabling Act , which began the process of transforming the Weimar Republic into Nazi Germany , a one-party dictatorship based on the totalitarian and autocratic ideology of National Socialism . Hitler aimed to eliminate Jews from Germany and establish a New Order to counter what he saw as the injustice of the post-World War I international order dominated by Britain and France . His first six years in power resulted in rapid economic recovery from the Great Depression , the effective abandonment of restrictions imposed on Germany after World War I , and the annexation of territories that were home to millions of ethnic Germans -- actions which gave him significant popular support .   Hitler sought Lebensraum -LRB- `` living space '' -RRB- for the German people in Eastern Europe . His aggressive foreign policy is considered to be the primary cause of the outbreak of World War II in Europe . He directed large-scale rearmament and on 1 September 1939 invaded Poland , resulting in British and French declarations of war on Germany . In June 1941 , Hitler ordered an invasion of the Soviet Union . By the end of 1941 German forces and the European Axis powers occupied most of Europe and North Africa . Failure to defeat the Soviets and the entry of the United States into the war forced Germany onto the defensive and it suffered a series of escalating defeats . In the final days of the war , during the Battle of Berlin in 1945 , Hitler married his long-time lover , Eva Braun . On 30 April 1945 , less than two days later , the two killed themselves to avoid capture by the Red Army , and their corpses were burned .   Under Hitler 's leadership and racially motivated ideology , the Nazi regime was responsible for the genocide of at least 5.5 million Jews and millions of other victims whom he and his followers deemed Untermenschen -LRB- `` sub-humans '' -RRB- and socially undesirable . Hitler and the Nazi regime were also responsible for the killing of an estimated 19.3 million civilians and prisoners of war . In addition , 29 million soldiers and civilians died as a result of military action in the European Theatre of World War II . The number of civilians killed during the Second World War was unprecedented in warfare , and constitutes the deadliest conflict in human history . 
The German concept of Lebensraum -LRB- -LSB- ˈleːbənsˌʁaʊm -RSB- , `` living space '' -RRB- refers to policies and practices of settler colonialism which proliferated in Germany from the 1890s to the 1940s . First popularized around 1901 , Lebensraum became a geopolitical goal of Imperial Germany in World War I -LRB- 1914 -- 1918 -RRB- originally , as the core element of the Septemberprogramm of territorial expansion . The most extreme form of this ideology was supported by the Nazi Party -LRB- NSDAP -RRB- and Nazi Germany until the end of World War II .   Following Adolf Hitler 's rise to power Lebensraum became an ideological principle of Nazism , and provided justification for the German territorial expansion into East-Central Europe . The Nazi Generalplan Ost policy -LRB- the Master Plan for the East -RRB- was based on its tenets . It stipulated that most of the indigenous populations of Eastern Europe would have to be removed permanently -LRB- either through mass deportation to Siberia , death , or enslavement -RRB- including Polish , Ukrainian , Russian , and other Slavic nations considered racially inferior and non-Aryan . The Nazi government aimed at repopulating these lands with Germanic colonists in the name of Lebensraum during World War II and thereafter . The entire populations were to be decimated by starvation , allowing for their own agricultural surplus to feed Germany .   Hitler 's strategic program for world domination was based on the belief in the power of Lebensraum , pursued by a racially superior society . People deemed to be part of inferior races , within the territory of Lebensraum expansion , were subjected to expulsion or destruction . The eugenics of Lebensraum assumed the right of the German Aryan master race -LRB- Herrenvolk -RRB- to remove indigenous people they considered to be of inferior racial stock -LRB- Untermenschen -RRB- in the name of their own living space . Nazi Germany also supported other ` Aryan ' nations ' pursuing their own Lebensraum , including Fascist Italy 's Spazio vitale . 