Elizabeth Woolridge Grant -LRB- born June 21 , 1985 -RRB- , better known by her stage name Lana Del Rey , is an American singer , songwriter , and model . Her music has been noted for its cinematic style , its preoccupation with themes of tragic romance and melancholia , and its references to pop culture , particularly 1950s and 1960s Americana .   Born and raised in New York , Del Rey embarked on a music career in 2005 and first received widespread attention in 2011 , when the music video for her single `` Video Games '' became a viral internet sensation . Del Rey received further recognition after her major-label debut Born to Die peaked at number two on the United States charts and was the fifth best-selling album of 2012 . A remix of its single `` Summertime Sadness '' , produced by Cedric Gervais , peaked at number six in the United States , and the Paradise EP followed that November , garnering Del Rey her first Grammy nomination for Best Pop Vocal Album . Three of the EP 's tracks were featured in her short film Tropico , which premiered in December 2013 .   In 2014 , Del Rey released her third studio album , Ultraviolence ; it became her first number-one album in the United States . In 2015 , following a North American tour with Courtney Love and Grimes , Del Rey released her fourth studio album , Honeymoon . Both albums received positive critical response .   Del Rey is set to release her fifth studio album , titled Lust for Life , on July 21 , 2017 . 
Born to Die is the second studio album by American singer and songwriter Lana Del Rey . Her major label debut , it was released on January 27 , 2012 by Interscope Records , Polydor Records and Stranger Records . Del Rey collaborated with producers including Patrik Berger , Jeff Bhasker , Chris Braide , Emile Haynie , Justin Parker , Rick Nowels , Robopop and Al Shux to achieve her desired sound . Their efforts resulted in a primarily baroque pop record , which sees additional influences from alternative hip hop , indie pop and trip hop music .   Contemporary music critics gave Born to Die mixed reviews ; some commended its distinctive production , while its repetitiveness and melodramatic tendencies were a recurring complaint . The album debuted at number two on the US Billboard 200 with first-week sales of 77,000 copies ; it was later certified platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America -LRB- RIAA -RRB- after moving one million units . Born to Die reached the peak positions on eleven international record charts .   After attaining online success after its initial premiere on June 29 , 2011 , `` Video Games '' was released as the lead single from Born to Die on October 17 , 2011 ; it peaked at number ninety-one on the US Billboard Hot 100 . Its follow-up singles `` Born to Die '' , `` Off to the Races '' , `` Blue Jeans '' , `` Summertime Sadness '' , `` National Anthem '' , and `` Dark Paradise '' performed sporadically across Billboard component charts and international record charts . The Cedric Gervais remix of `` Summertime Sadness '' was released on July 11 , 2013 and became Del Rey 's highest-charting single in the United States , reaching number six on the Billboard Hot 100 . Del Rey additionally promoted Born to Die with several televised performances , including a widely criticized appearance on Saturday Night Live . It was reissued on November 9 , 2012 as an expanded version subtitled The Paradise Edition , which was packaged with her third extended play Paradise -LRB- 2012 -RRB- .   Born to Die has sold 7,000,000 copies worldwide as of June 2014 . 