Soundgarden is an American rock band formed in Seattle , Washington , in 1984 by singer and rhythm guitarist Chris Cornell , lead guitarist Kim Thayil , and bassist Hiro Yamamoto . Matt Cameron became the band 's full-time drummer in 1986 , while bassist Ben Shepherd became a permanent replacement for Yamamoto in 1990 . Cornell remained in Soundgarden until his death in May 2017 , putting the band 's future in doubt and leaving Thayil as the only remaining original member of the band .   Soundgarden was one of the seminal bands in the creation of grunge , a style of alternative rock that developed in Seattle , and was one of a number of grunge bands signed to the record label Sub Pop . Soundgarden was the first grunge band to sign to a major label -LRB- A&M Records in 1988 -RRB- , though the band did not achieve commercial success until they popularized the genre in the early 1990s with Seattle contemporaries Pearl Jam , Nirvana , and Alice in Chains .   Soundgarden achieved its biggest success with the 1994 album Superunknown , which debuted at number one on the Billboard 200 and yielded the Grammy Award-winning singles `` Black Hole Sun '' and `` Spoonman '' . In 1997 , the band broke up due to internal strife over its creative direction . After more than a decade of working on projects and other bands , Soundgarden reunited in 2010 and their sixth studio album , King Animal , was released two years later .   As of 2012 , Soundgarden sold more than 10.5 million records in the United States , and an estimated 22.5 million worldwide . VH1 ranked Soundgarden at number 14 in their special 100 Greatest Artists of Hard Rock . 
Grunge -LRB- sometimes referred to as the Seattle sound -RRB- is a subgenre of alternative rock and a subculture that emerged during the in the Pacific Northwest U.S. state of Washington , particularly in Seattle and nearby towns . The early grunge movement revolved around Seattle 's independent record label Sub Pop and that region 's underground music scene . By the early 1990s its popularity had spread , with grunge acts appearing in California , then surfacing towards other parts of the United States and in Australia , building strong followings and signing major record deals .   Grunge became commercially successful in the early 1990s , due to releases such as Nirvana 's Nevermind , Pearl Jam 's Ten , Soundgarden 's Superunknown , Alice in Chains ' Dirt and Stone Temple Pilots ' Core . The success of these bands boosted the popularity of alternative rock and made grunge the most popular form of rock music at the time . Although most grunge bands had disbanded or faded from view by the late 1990s , they influenced modern rock music , as their lyrics brought socially conscious issues into pop culture and added introspection and an exploration of what it means to be true to oneself . Grunge was also an influence on subsequent genres such as post-grunge and nu metal .   Grunge fuses elements of punk rock and heavy metal , such as the distorted electric guitar used in both genres , although some bands performed with more emphasis on one or the other . Like these genres , grunge typically uses electric guitar , bass guitar , a drummer and a singer . Grunge also incorporates influences from indie rock bands such as Sonic Youth . Lyrics are typically angst-filled and introspective , often addressing themes such as social alienation , apathy , concerns about confinement , and a desire for freedom .   A number of factors contributed to grunge 's decline in prominence . During the , many grunge bands broke up or became less visible . Nirvana 's Kurt Cobain , labeled by Time as `` the John Lennon of the swinging Northwest '' , appeared unusually tortured by success and struggled with an addiction to heroin before he committed suicide at the age of 27 in 1994 . 