Benjamin Edward Meara Stiller -LRB- born November 30 , 1965 -RRB- is an American actor , comedian and filmmaker . He is the son of veteran comedians and actors Jerry Stiller and Anne Meara .   After beginning his acting career with a play , Stiller wrote several mockumentaries , and was offered his own show entitled The Ben Stiller Show , which he produced and hosted for its 13-episode run . Having previously acted in television , he began acting in films ; he made his directorial debut with Reality Bites . Throughout his career he has written , starred in , directed , or produced more than 50 films , including The Secret Life of Walter Mitty , Zoolander , The Cable Guy , There 's Something About Mary , the Meet the Parents trilogy , DodgeBall , Tropic Thunder , the Madagascar series , and the Night at the Museum trilogy . In addition , he has had multiple cameos in music videos , television shows , and films .   Stiller is a member of a group of comedic actors colloquially known as the Frat Pack . His films have grossed more than $ 2.6 billion in Canada and the United States , with an average of $ 79 million per film . Throughout his career , he has received multiple awards and honors , including an Emmy Award , multiple MTV Movie Awards and a Teen Choice Award . 
Zoolander is a 2001 American comedy film directed by Ben Stiller and starring Stiller , Owen Wilson and Will Ferrell . The film contains elements from a pair of short films directed by Russell Bates and written by Drake Sather and Stiller for the VH1 Fashion Awards television specials in 1996 and 1997 .  The short films and the film itself feature a dimwitted , narcissistic male model named Derek Zoolander , played by Stiller . The film involves Zoolander becoming the pawn of corrupt fashion executives who are plotting to assassinate the Prime Minister of Malaysia . The name `` Derek Zoolander '' was invented by Bates while he was editing the first short film , and was inspired by the names of two male models who both worked for Calvin Klein : the Dutchman Mark Vanderloo and the American Johnny Zander .   A satire on the fashion industry , the film received generally positive reviews from critics and was a box office success . A sequel , Zoolander 2 , was released on February 12 , 2016 , to negative reviews . An animated series , Zoolander : Super Model , was released on Netflix UK in August 2016 . 