The BRIT School for Performing Arts and Technology is a British performing arts and technology school located in Selhurst , Croydon , in the London Borough of Croydon , England , with a mandate to provide education and vocational training for the performing arts , media , art and design and the technologies that make performance possible . Selective in its intake , the school is notable for its numerous famous alumni including Marsha Ambrosius , Adele , Tara McDonald , Leo the Lion , Stefan Abingdon , Katy B , The Feeling , Imogen Heap , Jessie J , Cush Jumbo , Rizzle Kicks , the Kooks , King Krule , Loyle Carner , Leona Lewis , Eman Kellam , Raye , Ashley Madekwe , Katie Melua , Kate Nash , Shingai Shoniwa , Amy Winehouse , Ella Eyre , Rainy Milo , Antonio Orozco , and Tom Holland .   Established in 1992 under the CTC programme , the school is funded by the British Government with support from the British Record Industry Trust and maintains an independent school status from the local education authority . The school is remarkable as being one of only two performing arts and technology schools in the country that are free to attend , the others being both in the West Midlands . Walsall Studio School and Birmingham Ormiston Academy . 
An independent school is a school that is independent in its finances and governance ; it is usually not dependent upon national or local government to finance its operations , nor reliant on taxpayer contributions , and is instead funded by a combination of tuition charges , donations , and in some cases the investment yield of an endowment . It is typically governed by a board of governors that is elected independently of government , and has a system of governance that ensures its independent operation .   The terms independent school and private school are often synonymous in popular usage outside the United Kingdom . Independent schools may have a religious affiliation , but the more precise usage of the term excludes parochial and other schools if there is a financial dependence upon or governance subordinate to outside organizations . These definitions generally apply equally to institutions of primary and secondary education . -LRB- Tertiary education is provided by universities rather than schools . -RRB- 