New England is a geographical region comprising six states of the northeast United States : Connecticut , Maine , Massachusetts , New Hampshire , Rhode Island , and Vermont . It is bordered by the state of New York to the west and south , and the Canadian provinces of New Brunswick and Quebec to the northeast and north , respectively . The Atlantic Ocean is to the east and southeast , and Long Island Sound is to the south . Boston , the capital of Massachusetts , is New England 's largest city . The largest metropolitan area is Greater Boston , which also includes Worcester -LRB- the second-largest city in both Massachusetts and New England -RRB- , Manchester -LRB- the largest city in New Hampshire -RRB- , and Providence -LRB- the capital and largest city of Rhode Island -RRB- , with nearly a third of the entire region 's population .   In 1620 , Puritan Separatist Pilgrims from England first settled in the region , forming the Plymouth Colony , the second successful English settlement in the Americas , following the Jamestown Settlement in Virginia founded in 1607 . Ten years later , more Puritans settled north of Plymouth Colony in Boston , thus forming Massachusetts Bay Colony . Over the next 126 years , people in the region fought in four French and Indian Wars , until the British and their Iroquois allies defeated the French and their Algonquin allies in North America . In 1692 , the town of Salem , Massachusetts and surrounding areas experienced one of the most infamous cases of mass hysteria in the history of the Western Hemisphere , the Salem witch trials . In the late 18th century , political leaders from the New England Colonies known as the Sons of Liberty initiated resistance to Britain 's efforts to impose new taxes without the consent of the colonists . The Boston Tea Party was a protest to which Britain responded with a series of punitive laws stripping Massachusetts of self-government , which were termed the `` Intolerable Acts '' by the colonists . The confrontation led to the first battles of the American Revolutionary War in 1775 , and the expulsion of the British authorities from the region in spring 1776 .   The region played a prominent role in the movement to abolish slavery in the United States , and was the first region of the U.S. transformed by the Industrial Revolution , centered on the Blackstone and Merrimack river valleys .   The physical geography of New England is diverse for such a small area ; southeastern New England is covered by a narrow coastal plain , while the western and northern regions are dominated by the rolling hills and worn-down peaks of the northern end of the Appalachian Mountains . With the Atlantic fall line lying so close to the coast , numerous industrial cities were able to take advantage of water power along the numerous rivers , such as the Connecticut River , which bisects the region from north to south .   Each state is principally subdivided into small incorporated municipalities known as towns , many of which are governed by town meetings . The only unincorporated areas in the region exist in the sparsely populated northern regions of Maine , New Hampshire , and Vermont . The region is one of the U.S. Census Bureau 's nine regional divisions and the only multi-state region with clear , consistent boundaries . It maintains a strong sense of cultural identity , although the terms of this identity are often contrasted , combining Puritanism with liberalism , agrarian life with industry , and isolation with immigration . 
The Salem witch trials were a series of hearings and prosecutions of people accused of witchcraft in colonial Massachusetts between February 1692 and May 1693 . The trials resulted in the executions of twenty people , fourteen of them women , and all but one by hanging . Five others -LRB- including two infant children -RRB- died in prison .   Twelve other women had previously been executed in Massachusetts and Connecticut during the 17th century . Despite being generally known as the Salem Witch Trials , the preliminary hearings in 1692 were conducted in several towns : Salem Village -LRB- now Danvers -RRB- , Salem Town , Ipswich , and Andover . The most infamous trials were conducted by the Court of Oyer and Terminer in 1692 in Salem Town .   The episode is one of Colonial America 's most notorious cases of mass hysteria . It has been used in political rhetoric and popular literature as a vivid cautionary tale about the dangers of isolationism , religious extremism , false accusations , and lapses in due process . It was not unique , but a Colonial American example of the much broader phenomenon of witch trials in the early modern period , which took place also in Europe . Many historians consider the lasting effects of the trials to have been highly influential in subsequent United States history . According to historian George Lincoln Burr , `` the Salem witchcraft was the rock on which the theocracy shattered . ''   At the 300th anniversary events in 1992 to commemorate the victims of the trials , a park was dedicated in Salem and a memorial in Danvers . In November 2001 , the Massachusetts legislature passed an act exonerating all of those convicted and listing them by name , including some persons left out of earlier actions . In January 2016 , the University of Virginia announced its Gallows Hill Project team had determined the execution site in Salem , where the nineteen `` witches '' had been hanged . The city owns the site and is planning a memorial to the victims . 