Harry Edward Styles -LRB- born 1 February 1994 -RRB- is an English singer and songwriter . He is known as a member of the pop boy band One Direction . He made his debut as a singer with his band White Eskimo , who performed locally in Holmes Chapel , Cheshire . In 2010 , Styles auditioned as a solo artist for the British television series The X Factor . After being eliminated as a solo performer , Styles was brought back into the competition , along with four other contestants , Niall Horan , Zayn Malik , Liam Payne and Louis Tomlinson , to form One Direction .   Styles and his bandmates have released the albums Up All Night -LRB- 2011 -RRB- , Take Me Home -LRB- 2012 -RRB- , Midnight Memories -LRB- 2013 -RRB- , Four -LRB- 2014 -RRB- , and Made in the A.M. -LRB- 2015 -RRB- . They have also performed on two worldwide tours , one featured on concert film One Direction : This Is Us , and won several awards , including five Brit Awards and four MTV Video Music Awards .   On 23 June 2016 it was reported by Billboard that Styles had signed a three-album solo recording deal with Columbia Records , the same label behind One Direction . Styles will make his acting debut in the war film Dunkirk in July 2017 . Preceded by its first solo single `` Sign of the Times '' , his self-titled debut album was released on 12 May 2017 . 
Take Me Home is the second studio album by British-Irish group One Direction , released on 9 November 2012 by Syco Music and Columbia Records . As a follow-up to One Direction 's internationally successful debut album Up All Night -LRB- 2011 -RRB- , Take Me Home was written in groups and has an average of just under five songwriters per track . Largely recorded and composed in Sweden during 2012 , Savan Kotecha , Rami Yacoub and Carl Falk , who composed One Direction 's hits , `` What Makes You Beautiful '' and `` One Thing '' , spent six months in Stockholm developing songs for the album , and were able to shape melodies around the members ' tones .   The album 's songs are characterised by metronomic pop , vocal harmonies , hand claps , prominent electric guitar riffs , bright synthesizers , a homogeneous sound and message , and rotations of lead vocals . The members ' voices are presented individually on the record , and its lyricism speaks of falling in love , unrequited love , the insistence that flaws are what make a person unique , commitment , jealousy , and longing for past significant others . Take Me Home garnered mostly positive reviews from music critics . There was praise for its quality of production , while criticism hinged on its generic , rushed nature .   Globally , the album topped the charts in more than 35 countries , and was the fourth best-selling album of 2012 , selling 12.4 million units . The album 's number-one debut on the US Billboard 200 chart made One Direction the first group to bow atop the Billboard 200 with their first two albums since American girl group Danity Kane entered with Welcome to the Dollhouse in 2008 and their self-titled debut in 2006 . One Direction also became the second act in 2012 to achieve two number-one albums within a 12-month period , and the first boy band in US chart history to land two number-one albums in a calendar year . Their debut album and Take Me Home were the third and fifth best-selling albums of 2012 in the United States , respectively , making the band the first act to place two albums in the year-end top five in the Nielsen SoundScan era .   The album 's lead single , `` Live While We 're Young '' , released on 28 September 2012 , peaked inside the top ten in almost every country it charted in and recorded the highest one-week opening sales figure for a song by a non-US artist . The subsequent singles , `` Little Things '' and `` Kiss You '' , were less successful , although the former topped the UK Singles Chart . To support the release , One Direction performed the album 's songs on several televised programmes and during their worldwide Take Me Home Tour -LRB- 2013 -RRB- . 