Batman v Superman : Dawn of Justice is a 2016 American superhero film featuring the DC Comics characters Batman and Superman . Directed by Zack Snyder and distributed by Warner Bros. . Pictures , the film is the second installment in the DC Extended Universe following 2013 's Man of Steel . It was written by Chris Terrio and David S. Goyer , and features an ensemble cast that includes Ben Affleck , Henry Cavill , Amy Adams , Jesse Eisenberg , Diane Lane , Laurence Fishburne , Jeremy Irons , Holly Hunter and Gal Gadot . Batman v Superman : Dawn of Justice is the first live-action film to feature Batman and Superman together , as well as the first live-action cinematic portrayal of Wonder Woman , Aquaman , The Flash and Cyborg . In the film , criminal mastermind Lex Luthor manipulates Batman into a preemptive battle with Superman , whom Luthor is obsessed with defeating .   The film was announced at the 2013 San Diego Comic-Con International , after the release of Man of Steel . Snyder stated that the film would take inspiration from the Batman comic book series The Dark Knight Returns by Frank Miller , but clarified that it would follow an original premise . The incarnation of Batman in the film would also be different from the character 's previous portrayal in The Dark Knight Trilogy , serving as a cinematic reboot of the character . The film is also inspired by narrative elements from the `` Death of Superman '' story arc . Pre-production began at East Los Angeles College in October 2013 , with principal photography starting in May 2014 in Detroit , Michigan . Additional filming also took place in Chicago .   Batman v Superman : Dawn of Justice premiered at the Auditorio Nacional in Mexico City on March 19 , 2016 , and was released in the United States on March 25 , 2016 , in 2D , 3D , IMAX 3D , 4DX , premium large formats and 70 mm prints . Following a strong debut that set new box office records , the film experienced a historic drop in its second weekend and never recovered . Despite turning a profit , it was deemed a box office disappointment and received generally unfavorable reviews from critics for its tone , screenplay and pacing , though some praised the visual style and acting performances . A director 's cut , dubbed the `` Ultimate Edition '' and features 30 minutes of additional footage , was released digitally on June 28 , 2016 , and on Blu-ray and DVD on July 19 , 2016 . A follow-up , Justice League , is set to be released in November 2017 , and a standalone Superman sequel is currently in development . 
DC Comics , Inc. is an American comic book publisher . It is the publishing unit of DC Entertainment , a subsidiary of Warner Bros. . Entertainment , Inc. , a division of Time Warner . DC Comics is one of the largest and oldest American comic book companies , and produces material featuring numerous well-known heroic characters including Superman , Batman , Wonder Woman , Green Lantern , The Flash , Aquaman , Hawkman , Hawkgirl , Green Arrow , Martian Manhunter , Cyborg , Static , Zatanna , and Shazam . Most of their material takes place in the fictional DC Universe , which also features teams such as the Justice League , the Justice Society of America , the Suicide Squad , and the Teen Titans , and well-known villains such as the Joker , Lex Luthor , Darkseid , Catwoman , Ra 's al Ghul , Deathstroke , Reverse-Flash , Sinestro , Black Adam and Brainiac . The company has also published non-DC Universe-related material , including Watchmen , V for Vendetta and many titles under their alternative imprint Vertigo .   The initials `` DC '' came from the company 's popular series Detective Comics , which featured Batman 's debut and subsequently became part of the company 's name . Originally in Manhattan at 432 Fourth Avenue , the DC Comics offices have been located at 480 and later 575 Lexington Avenue ; 909 Third Avenue ; 75 Rockefeller Plaza ; 666 Fifth Avenue ; and 1325 Avenue of the Americas . DC had its headquarters at 1700 Broadway , Midtown Manhattan , New York City , but it was announced in October 2013 that DC Entertainment would relocate its headquarters from New York to Burbank , California in 2015 .   Random House distributes DC Comics ' books to the bookstore market , while Diamond Comic Distributors supplies the comics shop specialty market . DC Comics and its major , longtime competitor Marvel Comics -LRB- acquired in 2009 by The Walt Disney Company , Time Warner 's main competitor -RRB- together shared 70 % of the American comic book market in 2016 . 