Neil Patrick Harris -LRB- born June 15 , 1973 -RRB- is an American actor , comedian , magician , singer , and composer , known primarily for his comedy roles on television and his dramatic and musical stage roles . On television , he is known for playing the title character on Doogie Howser , M.D. -LRB- 1989 -- 1993 -RRB- , Barney Stinson on How I Met Your Mother -LRB- 2005 -- 2014 , for which he was nominated for four Emmy Awards -RRB- , and Count Olaf on A Series of Unfortunate Events -LRB- 2017 onward -RRB- .   Harris is also known for his role as the title character in Joss Whedon 's musical Dr. Horrible 's Sing-Along Blog -LRB- 2008 -RRB- and a fictional version of himself in the Harold & Kumar film series -LRB- 2004 -- 2011 -RRB- . His other films include Starship Troopers -LRB- 1997 -RRB- , Beastly -LRB- 2011 -RRB- , The Smurfs -LRB- 2011 -RRB- , The Smurfs 2 -LRB- 2013 -RRB- , A Million Ways to Die in the West -LRB- 2014 -RRB- , and Gone Girl -LRB- 2014 -RRB- . In 2014 , he starred in the title role in Hedwig and the Angry Inch on Broadway , for which he won the 2014 Tony Award for Best Leading Actor in a Musical .   Harris has hosted the Tony Awards in 2009 , 2011 , 2012 , and 2013 , for which he won several special class Emmy Awards . He also hosted the Primetime Emmy Awards in 2009 and 2013 , and hosted the 87th Academy Awards in 2015 , thus making him the first openly gay man to host the Academy Awards .   Harris was named one of Time magazine 's 100 Most Influential People in 2010 . He is married to David Burtka . In 2010 , they got twins through surrogacy . 
House -LRB- also called House , M.D. -RRB- is an American television medical drama that originally ran on the Fox network for eight seasons , from November 16 , 2004 to May 21 , 2012 . The series ' main character is Dr. Gregory House -LRB- Hugh Laurie -RRB- , an unconventional , misanthropic medical genius who , despite his dependence on pain medication , leads a team of diagnosticians at the fictional Princeton -- Plainsboro Teaching Hospital -LRB- PPTH -RRB- in New Jersey . The series ' premise originated with Paul Attanasio , while David Shore , who is credited as creator , was primarily responsible for the conception of the title character . The series ' executive producers included Shore , Attanasio , Attanasio 's business partner Katie Jacobs , and film director Bryan Singer . It was filmed largely in Century City .   House often clashes with his fellow physicians , including his own diagnostic team , because many of his hypotheses about patients ' illnesses are based on subtle or controversial insights . His flouting of hospital rules and procedures frequently leads him into conflict with his boss , hospital administrator and Dean of Medicine Dr. Lisa Cuddy -LRB- Lisa Edelstein -RRB- . House 's only true friend is Dr. James Wilson -LRB- Robert Sean Leonard -RRB- , head of the Department of Oncology . During the first three seasons , House 's diagnostic team consists of Dr. Robert Chase -LRB- Jesse Spencer -RRB- , Dr. Allison Cameron -LRB- Jennifer Morrison -RRB- , and Dr. Eric Foreman -LRB- Omar Epps -RRB- . At the end of the third season , this team disbands . Rejoined by Foreman , House gradually selects three new team members : Dr. Remy `` Thirteen '' Hadley -LRB- Olivia Wilde -RRB- , Dr. Chris Taub -LRB- Peter Jacobson -RRB- , and Dr. Lawrence Kutner -LRB- Kal Penn -RRB- . Kutner makes an appearance late in season five and then reappears in season 8 episode 22 . Chase and Cameron continue to appear in different roles at the hospital until early in season six . Cameron then departs the hospital , and Chase returns to the diagnostic team . Thirteen takes a leave of absence for most of season seven , and her position is filled by medical student Martha M. Masters -LRB- Amber Tamblyn -RRB- . Cuddy and Masters depart before season eight ; Foreman becomes the new Dean of Medicine , while Dr. Jessica Adams -LRB- Odette Annable -RRB- and Dr. Chi Park -LRB- Charlyne Yi -RRB- join House 's team .   House was among the top 10 series in the United States from its second through fourth seasons . Distributed to 66 countries , House was the most-watched television program in the world in 2008 . The show received numerous awards , including five Primetime Emmy Awards , two Golden Globe Awards , a Peabody Award , and nine People 's Choice Awards . On February 8 , 2012 , Fox announced that the eighth season , then in progress , would be its last . The series finale aired on May 21 , 2012 , following an hour-long retrospective . 